The anointing of Pastor Umo Eno as Governor Udom Emmanuel’s successor is generating negative reactions capable of affecting the ruling Peoples Democratic Party in the state if not well managed, writes Patrick Odey THE story of a governor anointing a successor is not new in Akwa Ibom State, as the incumbents had during the twilight of their days in office picked those they believed could keep the flag flying without necessarily rocking the boat or via away from the status quo. While former governor and now Minister of Niger Delta Affairs, Senator Godswill Akpabio, succeeded in bringing the current State Governor, Udom Emmanuel, his (Akpabio) predecessor, Obong Victor Attah, was not that lucky as he tried in vain to install his son-in-law, Bob Ekarika, as the governor. Governor Emmanuel on Sunday, January 30, 2022, put to rest several months of speculations and permutations about his likely successor with the announcement of Pastor Umo Eno as his preferred candidate for the 2023 governorship elections in the state. Eno, the state Commissioner for Lands, was unveiled by stakeholders of the Peoples Democratic Party and religious leaders at a meeting held in Uyo, the state capital. Attah made the formal presentation of Eno to the stakeholders comprising leading political chieftains of the PDP from the three senatorial districts, who applauded the choice and collectively pledged to work towards his emergence as the next governor of the state. But for the generality of the people of the state, the choice of the governor’s preferred successor has left a sour taste in their mouth. The endorsement has generated ripples from a broad spectrum of people and groups who also believe the governor is toeing a familiar path that has never worked for his predecessors and colleague governors in other parts of the country. In 2007 for instance, ex-governor Attah attempted to circumvent the wheel by imposing his son-in-law as his preferred candidate. It never worked. Ekarika was later defeated during the People’s Democratic Party primaries by Godswill Akpabio who was a commissioner in Attah’s cabinet. The succession crisis that rocked Imo State during the regime of former governor Rochas Okorocha is still fresh in the mind of keen observers. Like Attah, Okorocha also attempted to foist his son-in-law, Uche Nwosu, on the people of Imo State, but that undesirable contrivance also failed woefully. Nevertheless, Akpabio broke the jinx when he single-handedly installed his successor, Emmanuel, in 2015. But, that marriage of convenience never lasted as Akpabio broke the relationship, defecting to the All Progressives Congress. Till date, Emmanuel and Akpabio, the governor’s political godfather, are still not best of friends. Pundits believe however, that the way and manner Emmanuel handled the succession issue in the state may turn against him as he has completely neglected the principles of zoning and relied on prophesies to choose his successor. To many of them, the governor’s endorsement of Eno as his preferred candidate for the 2023 governorship election in the state amounts to imposition and a negation of the principles of democracy. According to Akwa Ibom Council of Ministers, the endorsement does not only smack of imposition and direct affront on the political will of the majority of Akwa Ibom people, it is also a clear violation of the long standing and immutable zoning arrangement in the state. At a media briefing in Uyo recently, the President and Secretary of the Council of Ministers, Mr Joseph Nyong and Apostle Elijah Usoh, respectively, lamented that the endorsement of Eno had negated the principles of zoning which had been a long standing criteria for sharing of political offices in the state. They stated, “There is no gainsaying the fact that it is only Itu/Ibiono Federal Constituency that has yet to produce the governor of all the federal constituencies in Uyo Senatorial District. It is therefore fair that it should be micro-zoned to the federal constituency.” They wondered why Attah who was a governor and a product of zoning in the state should be part of the endorsement of the pastor. A former speaker of the state House of Assembly, and member representing Nsit-Ibom/Nsit-Ubium/Etinan Federal Constituency, Onofiok Luke, who was one of those invited to the endorsement meeting, told journalists that he was not aware of the agenda of the meeting but had to attend to honour the governor who extended the invitation to him. Luke, who hails from the same Nsit-Ubium with Eno, said, “I’m not against their endorsement; I’m not against the elders of the state. But I’m saying the endorsement could only have happened after proper consultation. I went to Obong Attah and told him ‘‘why didn’t you talk to all of us who are in this race? Why didn’t you talk to Senator Bassey Albert? Why didn’t you talk to Akan Udofia? Why didn’t you talk to Akan Okon? Why didn’t you talk to James Iniama’’? This is because it was Obong Attah who made the presentation, not the governor. “We would have loved their endorsement but that would have been after due consultation. We would love the endorsement by the elders of the state. But whoever they would endorse should be the choice of the majority of people in the state. So, for me as Onofiok Akpan Luke, I am in the race for the governorship. I am going to stand in the election on the platform of my party, the PDP. I am not part of that endorsement at all. “But I respect their views; I respect the opinion and choice of the governor. I respect Obong Victor Attah and the opinion of the elders of the state. It is their choice. I only respect their opinion; but I am not in support of what they are doing. I was ambushed. I didn’t know the agenda of the meeting but I had to respect the governor and attend the meeting at the lodge on his invitation. For three good times, I had raised my hand, seeking to be allowed to speak but I was ignored,” Luke lamented. In the same vein, the Civil Society Organisations in the state had countered the governor’s claim that he meant well for state and had waited patiently for God to reveal his preferred candidate. Expressing the civil society’s position while speaking on the issue, the Chairman of Civil Society Organisations in the state, Dr. Harry Udoh, said though he was not against Eno’s endorsement as the preferred candidate, the governor’s claim that he waited patiently on God to reveal his preferred candidate is tantamount to reducing God to a politician. He said, “That’s the governor’s choice and it is within the governor’s power to support whoever he wants but that’s not the choice of Akwa Ibom people. There’s still the primary election and general elections to be won. Anybody can choose anybody. It is left for the people to decide. I think that’s what democracy is all about. “The governor can go ahead and dream the dreams he wants and see visions he wants but that is not the dream and vision of the people. The people have to decide at the end on who should be the next governor. We can’t argue with the governor, I have my dreams and visions too, likewise every other person. “Things are changing; societies are evolving all the way. People are being more conscious, there is a heightened interest in what is happening in the polity. There used to be imposition but now, I see a strong battle for that position. Even in the time past, there were upheavals. “The governor is not saying I chose this one based on his antecedent or what he can do but based on what God told him; in this 21st century? That is the fallacy to ‘appeal to authority’, that is just reducing God to a politician. I don’t have any problem with the Umo Eno choice, but the governor’s posturing is unpalatable.” Speaking further, the President of Akwa Ibom Council of Ministers, Apostle Nyong, further described Emmanuel’s posturing about God’s revelation as barefaced lies. According to Nyong, God is not an author of confusion and therefore, his name should not be used by people to seek validation of an obviously unpopular and unacceptable choice. He said, “The governor’s claim that God revealed his choice of successor to him and few individuals lent credence to a barefaced lie. The God we worship is neither an author of confusion nor purveyor of crisis and disunity,” he said Nyong believed that except the right thing was done, “the imposition of a preferred candidate on the majority of the people of Akwa Ibom State by a few persons may lead to unnecessary crisis in the state”. Also, the Akwa Ibom Youths have roundly criticised the governor’s action, adding that it is unfair and undemocratic for the governor to singlehandedly nominate a successor for more than six million people going by the current population of the state. The youths under the auspices of Akwa Ibom Youths Mandate, in a resolutions signed by  one Victor Thompson on behalf of the stakeholders of the group, said, “Now, we take a stand and we believe this resonates with the majority of young people in Akwa Ibom State,  we have assessed and examined the process of leadership recruitment in Akwa Ibom State, we have examined and assessed every aspirant that is seeking to occupy the office of the Governor of Akwa Ibom State and we have come to a conclusion that it is only one person that meets our criteria.” He listed the criteria of one that would lead them in the next dispensation to include one with proven track records of selfless service and one with experience in public service among others. The state coordinator of the Akwa Ibom Human Rights Community, Clifford Thomas, said, however, that the governor had the right to choose his preferred candidate, adding that it depended on whether the people actually wanted the person. He called on those who did not want the governor’s preferred candidate to come out and expressed their dislike by voting out the person. “The governor has the right to choose a preferred candidate to succeed him; it also depends on whether the people actually want the person. The people also have the right to choose whoever they deemed fit. It is not a big deal actually. The people have the right to reject the successor the governor chooses and the only way they can do this is by voting out the person,” Thomas emphasised. However, there are disturbing signals from Itu/Ibiono Ibom Federal Constituency as the stakeholders have met, insisting that the governor’s successor should come from the constituency because it is the only constituency in Uyo district yet to produce a governor in the state. Matter affecting the constituency were discussed at the meeting which held at the palace of the Paramount Ruler of Ibiono Ibom Local Government Area on Friday, February 4, 2022, were resolved as follows: That the meeting convened at the instance of the stakeholders of Itu/Ibiono Ibom Federal Constituency at the palace of the Paramount Ruler of Ibiono Ibom was to review recent political developments in the state; that it was affirmed that Akwa Ibom State was founded on six divisions of Abak, Eket, Ikot Ekpene, Itu, Opobo (Ikot Abasi), and Uyo, and that on account of political expediency, two of the divisions were merged to form a senatorial district, namely Abak and Ikot Ekpene in Ikot Ekpene Senatorial District; Eket and Opobo (Ikot Abasi) in Eket Senatorial District; and Uyo and Itu in Uyo Senatorial District. “That Uyo Senatorial District has three Federal Constituencies of Etinan, Itu and Uyo; That Akwa Ibom State started the rotation principle of governorship office in 1992, with Etinan Federal Constituency that produced candidates for the two political parties, the National Republican Convention and the Social Democratic Party. This arrangement produced His Excellency, Obong Akpan Isemin as the first civilian governor of Akwa Ibom State. The rotation principle was sustained and in 1999, Obong Victor Attah of Uyo Federal Constituency in Uyo Senatorial District emerged as the governor of the state. “That with the position of the governor returning to Uyo Senatorial District in 2023, the stakeholders demand that all political parties in Akwa Ibom State should pick their candidates from Itu/Ibiono Ibom Federal Constituency, which has never occupied the position before; and that the people of Itu/Ibiono Ibom Federal Constituency have resolved to unite to sensitise the people of Akwa Ibom State on the need to uphold the principle of rotation in order to ensure equity, justice, and good conscience.” Many in the state are of the view that the disapproval of the choice of the governor as a successor is a pointer to the fact that the situation can reduce the enviable rating of the PDP in the state if those involved fail to toe the line of fairness to the masses. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com