In recent times, some entertainers have had issues with the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency over alleged usage and trafficking in illicit drugs. Saturday Beats takes a look at some of the showbiz personalities who have been arrested by the anti-drug agency Zinoleesky and Mohbad The residence of singers, Azeez Oniyide, popularly known as Zinoleesky; and Ilerioluwa Oladimeji, aka Mohbad, was busted by operatives of the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency on Thursday, February 24. The arrest of the singers who are signed to Marlian Record, a music company owned by controversial singer, Azeez Fashola, popularly known as Naira Marley, was confirmed by the NDLEA’s spokesman, Femi Babafemi, who said the agency recovered cannabis and ‘molly’ during the operation. However, Mohbad was released on Thursday evening. Naira Marley announced this in a tweet. He wrote, “NDLEA has released Mohbad after physically assaulting him. Zinoleesky is still in custody. The boys are under a lot of stress after being ambushed in the middle of the night with no warrant. I am urgently returning to Lagos now. What is happening to my brothers is disgusting. The injustice is unfair and this is beginning to look like a pattern. First (they came for) me, now my artistes. Free Zinoleesky, free Shubomi, free Micee and Dosky.” De General Social media comedian, Sunday Joshua, aka De General, was arrested in the early hours of Wednesday, January 12, 2022, by men of the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency. The arrest, according to a statement by NDLEA, followed the raid of a notorious drug joint at the Lekki area of Lagos State. Accordign to the agency, cannabis sativa, Tramadol (225mg), and some paraphernalia for drug use were found in his home. Shortly after the arrest, De General was charged to court where he was convicted for being in possession of the illicit drugs. The skit maker was, however, pardoned by the court on the grounds that the quantity of drugs found on him was too small to earn him a sentence. CDQ In April 2021, singer, Sodiq Yussuf, popularly known as CDQ, was arrested by the NDLEA at his Lekki residence. The anti-drug agency said that they found a cannabis variant, popularly known as ‘loud’, in the rapper’s home. CDQ was eventually released after spending about 24 hours in the NDLEA’s custody. Baba Suwe Late actor, Babatunde Omidina, popularly known as Baba Suwe’s ordeal with the NDLEA, is not news to many. The comedy actor was arrested by the agency in October 2011 after a full body scanner allegedly detected illicit drugs in his system at the Murtala Muhammed International Airport, Lagos, as he made to board a flight to Paris, the capital of France. Baba Suwe spent several days in the custody of the agency, where he was made to excrete repeatedly in hopes that the drugs would be expelled from his body. However, no drugs were eventually found in his waste. A Lagos court eventually granted Baba Suwe bail in the sum of N500,000, with the condition that the bail would only take effect after a 15-day court-ordered detention. After his release, Baba Suwe dragged the NDLEA to court. In 2012, an Ikeja High Court ordered the NDLEA to pay Baba Suwe N25m in compensation. The court held that the actor’s detention was a flagrant abuse and infringement of his human rights. The court also ordered the agency to tender a public apology to the actor in two national newspapers. However, the NDLEA appealed the case and eventually secured a favourable judgment at a Court of Appeal in Lagos. However, Baba Suwe, through his lawyer, Bamidele Aturu, disagreed with the appeal court’s verdict and took the case to the Supreme Court. Aturu urged the Supreme Court to set aside the decision of the Court of Appeal. Unfortunately, Aturu died before the case could be seen to a logical conclusion. Till his demise, Baba Suwe, lamented that he was unfairly treated, and that the case hurt his career. Hassanat Akinwande (Wunmi) Actress, Hassanat Akinwande, popularly known as Wunmi, was in 2006 arrested by officials of the NDLEA for cocaine trafficking. The actress was arrested as she was about to board a Virgin Atlantic plane to the United Kingdom at the Murtala Muhammed International Airport, Lagos. The veteran actress was said to have excreted over 90 wraps of cocaine. She was eventually jailed for two years.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com