The Deputy Governor of Akwa Ibom State, Mr. Moses Ekpo, has called on all border communities in the state to channel their grievances and report all security threats to their respective traditional rulers and council chairmen for prompt actions. He charged communities to exploit the use of dialogue which is the established benchmark for resolving the crisis in the state rather than resorting to violence. Ekpo spoke on Saturday during a sensitisation campaign for the people of Ikot Ayan Itam in Itu and Ikot Udo Uruan in Uruan LGAs respectively. Represented by the Permanent Secretary in the deputy governor’s office, Mr Nkopuruk Ekaiko, the deputy governor said the destruction of lives and property during a crisis was not the best way to resolve disputes. He said, “In a renewed effort at sustaining a peaceful atmosphere in the state, the Udom Emmanuel administration has established a benchmark in the use of dialogue in peaceful resolution of disputes and misunderstanding, rather than destruction of lives and property.” The Chairman of Itu Local Government Area, Mr Etetim Onuk, described the sensitisation campaign as a welcome development in the area and appealed to both communities to maintain peace by reporting misunderstandings appropriately for the growth of the areas. In his response, the Chairman of Uruan Local Government Area, Mr Iniobong Ekpenyong, who was represented by the Vice Chairman, Mrs Uduak Enang, condemned the crisis between Ikot Ayan Itam and Ikot Udo Uruan. Ekpenyong said that both communities have suffered the effect of the dispute, ranging from displacement to loss of lives and property. He pleaded with all parties to sheathe their swords for peace to reign while waiting for the government to find a lasting solution to the crisis. The Paramount Ruler of Itu, His Royal Majesty, Edidem Akpan Inyang, thanked the state government for taking a step towards the resolution of the land disputes. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com