At least three crew members died penultimate Wednesday and about four others went missing following the explosion of an oil storage and production vessel, FPSO Trinity Spirit, located at the Ukpokiti Terminal, near Escravos in the Niger Delta. The facility, owned by Shebah Exploration & Production Company Limited, serves as the primary production facility for Oil Mining Lease 108, offshore the western Niger Delta. It has a processing capacity of 22,000 barrels per day and a storage capacity of two million barrels. The aftermath of the explosion made environmentalists to express concerns over possible major spill and its impact though the Director General of the National Oil Spill Detection and Response Agency, Idris Musa, told the AFP that “no spill incident” had taken place “other than emulsified oil in small quantities.” “There will definitely be a spill,” Mike Karikpo, of the Environmental Rights Action/Friends of the Earth Nigeria insisted. “This is a facility that handles over 20,000 barrels per day … the oil will reach the surrounding communities.” Similarly, the Executive Director of Niger Delta Good Governance and Environmental Initiative, Eric Omare, said high tidal waves could have washed away the spilled oil, warning that the full impact would be felt soon. Greenpeace Africa, the continental arm of a global advocacy body on environmental protection, in a statement on Tuesday said the fire incident was characteristic of the unscrupulous habits of the fossil fuel industry, stressing that the vessel had outlived its lifespan by 20 years and should have been decommissioned a long time ago. “The negligence of Shebah Exploration and Production shows that, like most climate criminals, they care more about their profits than the safety of the environment and the people who depend on it,” Oceans Campaign Manager at Greenpeace Africa, Dr. Aliou Ba, remarked. Ba added, “The Nigerian government must urgently take up its responsibilities to avoid these types of threats in the future to preserve the environment and the well-being of the people. The latter have suffered too much from the fossil fuel industry. “….Environmental crimes like polluting and toxifying the air and water must be treated as seriously as any other crime where people are harmed as a direct result. Damaging other’s lives for the sake of money is unjust and too egotistical for African countries to keep supporting it.” Oil-rich Niger Delta region has been at the receiving end of monumental degradation over the years with several host communities battling water and air pollution. The government has come up with policies to address the hazard but with little effort made in terms of implementation such as mopping up the polluted environment and curbing carbon emission. However, beyond human measures, there are crucial roles of technology in monitoring activities around vital infrastructure to ensure safety and prevent incidents like the vessel explosion and its resultant environmental impacts. In this regard, autonomous inspection and monitoring systems. Manufactured by Percepto, AIM is a software programme that uses drones and robots to inspect and monitor critical infrastructure such as power lines, industrial sites, power plants, refineries, and mines at frequent intervals. The software automates a fleet of drones and robots on a routine to collect the data for analysis and take decisive steps. AIM was inspired by the 2018 camp fire that rocked Northern California, United States. Described as the deadliest in the state’s history, the inferno was caused by a faulty section of a transmission tower that might have been discovered through frequent inspections and prevention. “With better foresight, we might be able to prevent these environmental tragedies that seem to be happening on a monthly basis,” Percepto’s Chief Executive Officer, Dor Abuhasira, was quoted as saying. The robotic manufacturing company recently launched its upgraded AIM platform which can be integrated with autonomous drones and robots as well as other visual data collectors, including DJI drones, and fixed cameras. According to a report by the Oil Review Africa, an oil and gas magazine, “Percepto aims to offer the only end-to-end solution powered by AI (artificial intelligence) to collate and streamline all visual data for accurate actionable insights.” “Reports and insights are automatically generated based on the combined visual data. Disseminated to relevant stakeholders on any mobile device, issues and faults are geo-tagged and displayed on a map, enabling effective action before escalating into more serious problems,” it added. One of the latest AIM innovations is Percepto Air Max operating in the largest mining, oil and gas, and energy companies on six continents and designed to inspect and map complex industrial environments where the highest accuracy and durability are critical. The report noted further that Percepto Air Mobile is a new, more compact and lighter-weight model suitable for both small and large sites that need greater deployment flexibility. “It is ideal for linear inspections, such as pipelines and power lines, and can monitor short-term projects across multiple sites,” it said. A Professor of Computer Science and Artificial Intelligence at the Babcock University, Ilisan-Remo , Ogun State, Oludele Awodele, said AIM devices if well deployed guaranteed security and safety of critical assets more than humans. He explained that the extent and nature of information fed into an autonomous drone for instance would determine its level of performance without being aided by any human intervention. Awodele said, “They can be used as surveillance to ensure that appropriate security is put in place. A drone is one of the new technologies that imbibe the concept of artificial intelligence. It is a built intelligence that is being remotely controlled. Some of them are even embedded whereby they control part of the system itself. They are just programmed and they do whatever you want them to do. “Most of the autonomous systems work with data. The more you give them information, the more they perform. If they are deployed to work on their own without human agent (human intervention), their implementation is guarded by supervised learning. Once they get the requisite data information, they begin to act intelligently on their own. That is why they are called autonomous and they can be used to monitor infrastructure anywhere with complex programmes, even better than human agents. They act independently and ensure that properties are safe and secure.” The expert however cautioned that some procedures needed to be followed in deploying robotic equipment so it didn’t become a threat to human agents. He stated, “The danger is that there are procedures. Before you deploy any robotic device, there must be an agreement that it will be deployed in such a way that it won’t threaten or wound human agents. All those precautions are there but at the same time, anything can happen. But whatever happens will be due to human error in the course of programming.” On his part, a Professor of Management Information System, Ariyo Adebiyi, said AI-powered devices were increasingly being deployed in developed countries to monitor vital infrastructural facilities, urging Nigeria to emulate other nations. He said, “Drones are useful in monitoring critical infrastructure. It can be deployed based on the facilities we want it to monitor. That is how it is done in advanced countries. There are surveillances put in place in developed countries that we need to explore and it (AIM) is a welcome development. Beyond the CCTV cameras, there are new technologies that are springing up and are being used in developed countries.” Similarly, a Professor of Computer Science with specialisation in software engineering, Sunday Idowu, stated that autonomous drones and robotics are crucial in gathering information about infrastructural facilities, especially those located in remote places and not easily accessible. He said, “It is what we call the internet of things or artificial intelligence. The system is able to generate data on the infrastructure, its location and movement of people around it. It is an emerging useful tool and it has the ability to carry out surveillance particularly in remote places where humans may not easily access.”   ,, Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com