The Tinubu Support Group has expressed confidence that Vice-President Yemi Osinbajo and other ‘political graduates from the ‘political school’ of All Progressives Congress leader, Bola Tinubu, will support the presidential ambition of the former governor of Lagos State in 2023. The Head of Media and Publicity of the group, Tosin Adeyanju, made this known in a statement on Friday, titled, ‘No war between Tinubu Support Group, SWAGA and Osinbajo – TSG’ Adeyanju debunked insinuations of a cold war between TSG, SWAGA and Osinbajo, insisting that it is a malicious campaign to drive a wedge between groups working for Asiwaju’s 2023 presidency and the Vice President who is yet to declare for President. Earlier on Friday, there were reports speculating that there was a crisis between Tinubu Support Group and SWAGA over harmonisation. However, according to Adeyanju, there was no time that it was said that group should collapse under one leadership. He described the publication (not by The PUNCH) as a mischievous attempt to drag Tinubu’s camp into controversies and urged Nigerians and especially Tinubu’s loyalist not to fall for the mischief. He said all groups will retain their independent identities and functions and continue to do the work they have started in their various locality. He said, “Our attention has, however, been drawn to a report in an online newspaper alleging that harmonisation had worsened a phantom cold war between Tinubu Support Group and South West Agenda. “This is an imagination of the news organisation in order to create unnecessary attention. Tinubu Support Group and other support groups are wholly committed to the progressive ideology of the Tinubu political family and we remain focus on the task ahead. “There has never been and there will never be war in whatsoever form between our group and any other support group. Our political family remains and will forever remain strong. And we are staying focused in our commitment to building and maintaining a cohesive political party ambition of our principal.” He also lamented that Tinubu is in good terms with all those he had mentored including Osinbajo. “Our principal already declared to run for Presidency come 2021 and we are optimistic that all those who graduated from his political school of thoughts including the vice President will support his ambition. “We are not bothered, we are confident and we know that in 2023, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu will be the President of Nigeria, by God’s grace,” Adeyanju added. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com