The Earthshot Prize, a global environmental platform to discover and scale ground-breaking eco-innovations to repair the planet, has received a boost of £1 million for innovators. It said the investment from DP World, a leading provider of worldwide smart end-to-end supply chain logistics, enabling trade flow across the globe, would scale two Earthshot oceans finalists’ solutions, including laying the foundations for the first-ever commercial land-based coral farm for reef restoration in the Middle East and installing the largest living seawall on the planet to support the native marine life of the region. It also said each of the finalists would receive £500,000, according to a statement titled, ‘Prince William’s Incredible Earthshot Innovators Backed by DP World with £1Million Global Investment at first-ever Innovation Showcase.’ The environmental platform Prince William was joined on Thursday  by His Highness Sheikh Ahmed bin Saeed Al Maktoum and Sultan Ahmed bin Sulayem, Group Chairman and CEO of DP World, at the first-ever Earthshot Prize innovation showcase. It said Prince William attended the event at the DP World Pavilion at Expo 2020 Dubai during his visit to the Middle East and applauded DP World’s announcement of the £1m investment to two Earthshot Prize Finalists, designed to scale their work in the United Arab Emirate and Middle East. According to the statement, Earthshot Prize Council member, Her Majesty, Queen Rania Al Abdullah of Jordan, joined William via video message at the exclusive Earthshot Prize innovation showcase at Expo 2020 Dubai, where the prince challenged the distinguished audience of investors, philanthropists, and business leaders to support the finalists’ solutions to repair the planet. “We have reason to hope, our future is not yet set, and while the task ahead is great, we still have the ability to repair our planet, and create a better world. The Earthshot mission is more than just a prize.’’ Copyright PUNCH All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com