The management of Galaxy Blackbone Limited has said it has deployed experts to ensure that the temporary service outage experienced recently never occurs again. The PUNCH had reported on Monday that thousands of telecom subscribers nationwide seeking to retrieve their lost SIM cards or acquire new lines could not do so due to a technical glitch in the NIMC’s National Identity Management portal that has grounded SIM-related services. This was caused by a technical problem with the Hosting Service Platform of Galaxy Backbone Limited, a Federal Government agency that provides Information and Communications Technology services. In a statement signed by the Head, Corporate Communications, Chidi Okpala, Galaxy Blackbone Limited said a good number of the services have been restored, adding that efforts are being made to restore the rest. The statement read, “The Management of Galaxy Backbone Limited (GBB) regrets the temporary outage of some of its services and the inconvenience being experienced by some of its customers across the country. “Across the organisation, the highest priority classification has been assigned and all hands are on deck to ensure resolution is achieved within the shortest possible time. “At the time of this Press statement, GBB has put together a highly-skilled technical team of experienced Engineers and Applications experts to not just solve this current issue but put in place all the necessary structures to ensure that such an incident never occurs again in the future. While a good number of the services have been restored, efforts are being made to restore all the other services of its customers. “In the meantime, and since this incident occurred, GBB has continued to notify and reach out to all its valued customers and will continue to do so to provide the necessary updates required until all the services affected are completely restored.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com