Facebook is partnering an online community of teachers under the aegis of Nigerian Teachers to train school owners and tutors in learner-centred teaching skills at this year’s International Teachers Conference. The conference, which holds in Lagos from April 11 to 12, 2022, would be hosted by the online group which won the 2021 Facebook Community Accelerator Award. Speaking with our correspondent, the convener of the conference, Dr Peter Ogudoro, said the programme was meant to retrain school owners and teachers in intellectual tools needed to equip their students and better prepare them for the future. He stated that the participants would learn from teacher trainers from Finland, education policymakers, educational technology vendors, medical doctors, parliamentarians, school owners and teachers from around the world. Ogudoro said, “The conference is meant for school owners and teachers the first day and will cater for 350 school owners. The second day would cater for subject and classroom teachers and we are bringing resource persons from Finland. The education system in Nigeria is to be got right; our teaching methodology which we call pedagogy in education is upside down. “The world, especially in the advanced societies, is at the level where the emphasis is on learners-centred teaching and delivery in classrooms where the learner is considered as a major resource in the learning process and that everything we do as teachers must be driven by what the needs of the learners are. “That is not what we find in the typical classroom in Nigeria where the teaching methodology is driven by what the institution that runs the education states and of course what the teachers have been instructed to do in the classroom. There is little or no emphasis on what the child needs today to be globally competitive.” The educationist said Nigerian Teachers had over the years helped members of the platform to acquire good teaching skills for free. Ogudoro added, “Facebook gave us an award last year that has come with some resources that are enabling us to do this conference. Participants can register at www.nigerianteachers.org/space-for-conference. “School owners from Nigeria would pay N87,000 while participants from other countries would pay $300. Subject teachers from Nigeria would pay N63,000 while international participants would pay $250.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com