A coalition under the aegis of the South-West Development Frontier has urged all the political parties to ensure their presidential candidates in the 2023 election come from the Southern part of the country. The convener of the group, Olufemi Osabinu, at a briefing on Monday in Lagos, said the need for justice and equity was an inevitable task for every Nigerian of good conscience. He said, “As the nation looks forward to the expiration of the tenure of the incumbent President Muhammad Buhari and warms up for the 2023 Presidential election, we must be conscious of our place in history, and as patriotic citizens, to demand equity and fairness, as a step, towards consolidating, on our firm commitment, to the unity of Nigeria. “To this end, we are demanding that candidates from the northern part of the country and their promoters bring a close their ambition to be president of Nigeria come 2022. Not only did we find insensitive, the quest to retain power in the North but it is also self-serving and unjust, after President Muhammadu Buhari would have completed an eight-year term as the President of Nigeria, from the same northern zone of the country. “Over the time, we have been at the forefront of the call for political parties in the country, to have their Presidential ticket zoned to the Southern part of the country for the sake of equity and justice. We do not only want to appeal to Alhaji Atiku Abubakar to drop his Presidential ambition, we are also reminding politicians who are canvassing for his presidency, to realise that they are trying to perpetuate injustice, which is against the unity of our country. “2023 is a crucial moment that will determine a lot, in the stability or otherwise, of our democracy. Nigerians should be given the opportunity, to elect a leader, who can stabilise the polity and move the country forward from where the administration will hand over in 2023. Ensuring a peaceful polity will only be achievable when we allow equity and justice in the distribution of power, between every component of the country.”