The Katsina Police Command, on Friday, raised the alarm that terrorists operating in the state now used vehicles for operation, as against their former style of using motorcycles. The Command’s Spokesman, Gambo Isah, raised the alarm while parading no fewer than thirteen suspects who were recently arrested, bothering on terrorism-related offences. The spokesman revealed that the command’s operatives, early Thursday morning, had a fierce gun duel with terrorists at Kuru and Dangani villages in Matazu Local Government Area, during which five terrorists were killed. He said the terrorists had around 1:00 am on Thursday, attacked the two villages, where they rustled 81 cows, 54 sheep, and one donkey. The terrorists also kidnapped a 62-year-old man, identified as Alhaji Sule. Isah added that the operatives later recovered all the rustled animals, and rescued Alhaji Sule. The operatives also recovered a white colour Golf ‘3’ car with registration number: Katsina: BKR 367 XA from the terrorists. The recovered vehicle was displayed during the parade of the suspects at the Katsina police headquarters on Friday. Isah said, “From our recent encounters with terrorists, we discovered that they (the terrorists) have changed their modus operandi: they now use vehicles to attack instead of motorcycles which they used to operate with. “Apart from the Golf car we recovered from them during yesterday’s (Thursday) operation, the terrorists also used a J5, and a Sharon in the last Wednesday operation in Jibiya, where we lost our gallant DPO for the area. We are, however, ready for them, notwithstanding any strategy they come up with.” Suspects paraded on Friday included those alleged to have been involved in terrorism, kidnapping, theft of vehicles, and vandalisation of government property. SP Isah said all the suspects would be arraigned in courts after completion of investigation on their cases. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com