The Attorney-General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami (SAN), has denied blaming the judiciary for the delay in the trial of corruption cases in the country. According to him, the present regime respects the doctrine of separation of powers. Malami had, in a television interview on Monday, said the judiciary was responsible for the delay in the dispensation of justice in the country, especially in the trial of corruption cases. But the Chief Justice of Nigeria, Justice Tanko Muhammad, in a statement issued by his Special Assistant (Media), Yusuf Isah, said the judiciary was neither in charge of investigation nor the political and economic conditions that facilitate speedy disposal of corruption cases. According to him, the allegation by Malami was like giving a dog a bad name in order to hang it. But Malami, in a statement on Wednesday by his Special Assistant (Media and Public Relations), Dr. Umar Gwandu, said his comment was construed to evoke an unintended and non-existing inferences. According to him, the Federal Government recognises the sanctity of the provisions of Sections 4, 5 and 6 of the 1999 Constitution that delineate the roles and responsibilities of the executives, legislature and judiciary. He said it was on that note that the Federal Government supported the review of Section 121(3) of the Constitution to accommodate financial autonomy of the state legislature and judiciary. Malami explained that the Federal Government also came up with Executive Order 10 to enforce the autonomy. The AGF said it was on the record that the present regime has a record of non-interference with or meddling into the affairs of the legislature and judiciary. “It was within the context of this quality and feature of non-interference by the Buhari-led Federal government and for the avoidance of sub-judice that the minister responded that high-profile cases were presented by the Federal Government for prosecution and the government came out with initiatives in its efforts to support speedy determination of justice. “It was an innocent statement aimed at showing and re-enactment of tripartite division of powers and responsibilities among the Executive, Legislature and Judiciary,” the statement read. Malami said this position was in consistent with the decision of the Court of Appeal in Hon. Abdullahi Maccido Ahmad v. Sokoto State House of Assembly & Anor,  (2002) 44 WRN 52.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com