The Osun State Governor, Gboyega Oyetola, has highlighted those who played critical roles in ensuring the resuscitation of All Progressives Congress in the state despite the internal crisis that almost tore the party apart. Oyetola who singled out the individuals for commendations, noted that the elders council known as ‘Igbimo Agba’ were instrumental in reshaping the party and ensuring his victory during last weekend’s APC primary in the state. He listed the council members who intervened to ensure normalcy reign supreme in the party to include Chief Bisi Akande, Engineer Sola Akinwumi, Otunba Iyiola Omisore, Sooko Adeleke Adewoyin, and Mrs. Titi Laoye Ponle, among others. The governor’s appreciation is contained in a statement issued by his Chief Press Secretary, Ismail Omipidan, on Saturday, titled, ‘Osun APC primary: Oyetola appreciates party leaders, supporters’. The statement read, “Governor Adegboyega Oyetola has again thanked party leaders, supporters, loyalists and critical stakeholders for the huge support they gave him, including trooping out en massse during the just-concluded primary of the All Progressives Congress, APC, where he emerged victorious. “Specifically, he acknowledged the role played by the leadership of ‘Igbimo Agba’ (Elders Council), especially Chief Bisi Akande, Engineer Sola Akinwumi, Otunba Iyiola Omisore, Sooko Adeleke Adewoyin, Mrs. Titi Laoye Ponle and others too numerous to mention, saying their wise counsel helped in no measure in bringing the party back to life. “He also has kind words for the party chairman, Prince Gboyega Famodun, and other party excos for their unflinching loyalty and support, adding that their firm stand on the need to reposition the party paid off last Saturday. “Oyetola said he did not begrudge those who contested the ticket with him, saying it was the expression of their democratic rights, just as he thanked members of the National and State Assemblies and the cabinet members for standing by him. “This is the beauty of democracy. My challengers expressed their democratic rights. I thank the party members for their prayers, goodwill and immense faith they reposed in me. Let me also reassure them that I will never let them down. I will continue to work for the common good and to justify every bit of confidence reposed in me as a candidate of the party.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com