The Osun State Governor, Gboyega Oyetola, has urged All Progressives Congress loyalists to be wary of those that are buying membership slips ahead of Saturday’s governorship primary. This is as the governor also expressed confidence in the strengths of the party members to elect him at the primary and ensure his emergence at the governorship election. These were contained in a statement titled, ‘You’re a game-changer, you deserve a second term, Owa Obokun of Ijesaland tells Oyetola’, and signed by Oyetola’s spokesman, Ismail Omipidan, on Wednesday. The governor spoke in Ijesa-South Federal Constituency while addressing supporters and members of the opposition Peoples Democratic Party in Iperindo, Atakumosa East Local Government Area, that defected to APC. Oyetola implored the party loyalists to keep their membership slips jealously and come out in large numbers to vote for him as the direct mode has been chosen by the National Secretariat of the party. Speaking on behalf of the defectors, Mr. Femi Adanlawo, lauded Oyetola for his commitment to the welfare of the people, saying his performance had motivated them to decamp from their former party. Adanlawo, who described APC as the only party that cares for the welfare of the masses, said their defection would contribute meaningfully to the growth and development of the party. He called on the co-defectors to see the party as theirs, noting that the rousing welcome given to them was a sign that the party meant well for all regardless of background or status. The new members promised to work hand-in-hand with the leadership and members of the party to ensure victory for Oyetola in the primary and governorship election. Earlier, the Owa Obokun Adimula of Ijesaland, Oba Gabriel Adekunle Aromolaran, and Alamo of Ayegbaju-Ijesa, Oba Adeyemi Abideen, lauded Oyetola for running a people-oriented government that has brought drastic change to all sectors. They disclosed that the entire Ijesa people are resolute to return Oyetola for second term in reciprocation of his modest achievements in the last three years. “I pledge on behalf of the Ijesa traditional rulers, sons, and daughters that we are resolute to support you and continue to give your adminstration topmost cooperation and vote for you massively in order to make sure that you are returned elected. “You will be returned. Whoever doesn’t want can go and hit his head on the floor. We don’t care. We believe strongly that you will win across the State. I am in full control of Ijesaland and whatever I say is binding on every Ijesa son and daughter as the paramount ruler. “Please put your mind at rest. We are for you. I know you are for us too, you are our own and nothing can change it. We are very glad that you know our requests”, Aromolaran said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com