Members of the Lagos State House of Assembly have commended Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu for his efforts to complete the state’s rail projects. The Speaker of the Assembly, Mudashiru Obasa, in a statement on Tuesday, lauded the efforts of the governor towards tackling gridlocks in the state. He said, “The governor deserves commendation and I am optimistic that the rail projects will be completed by this administration. Traffic has become something else and people complain always. These projects are, thus, aimed at relieving people of the harrowing experiences they face on the roads. “The Opebi-Ojota bridge project which is to be embarked upon by the government is also important because this is what our people deserve and we are encouraging the governor to do more, particularly on this rail line issue. We have been on this matter since the Jakande era. We wish the governor becomes the ‘lucky boy’ that will see to the completion of the rail projects.” The lawmaker representing Eti-Osa Constituency II, Gbolahan Yishawu, called on the House to do all it takes to approve the necessary funds for the completion of the rail projects. “I urge that the House continues to do all it takes including approving the necessary funds for the government to complete the Blue and Red Lines of the rail projects, because, on the average, people in the state spend up to five hours on the roads as a result of gridlocks; the completion of the Red rail Line will reduce this challenge. “It is only a responsible government that will ensure that such wasted hours are reduced to the nearest minimum,” he said. Also, the lawmaker representing Surulere Constituency 1, Desmond Elliot, described the projects as pointers to the success of Lagos since 1999. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com