Commercial drivers along the Gusau-Magami Road in Zamfara State have embarked on an indefinite strike due to persistent attacks by bandits on the road. They called on the authorities to deploy adequate security in the area, which had been taken over by the hoodlums. PUNCH Metro learnt that the drivers abandoned the road on Tuesday, a situation that crippled the socio-economic activities of people living along the 95-kilometre road. One of the drivers, Musa Idris, who spoke to our correspondent, said the bandits were always seen on the road, especially on market days, when there were a lot of people. According to Idris, no fewer than 15 commercial drivers and several passengers were abducted in just two weeks. He added that some vehicles were also burnt by the hoodlums. The driver said, “We have lost many of our colleagues, who were killed by bandits on that road, and currently, they are holding about 15 drivers and demanding payment of ransom. “We are forced to embark on strike in order to draw the attention of both Zamfara State and the Federal Government to do something to protect our lives.” Another driver, who gave his name as Samaila, said his Golf car was burnt by bandits. He said, “I escaped from being kidnapped because when they blocked the road two weeks ago, I was lucky to run away. “There were over 10 vehicles, including mine, which were stopped by the bandits on that day and when they were trying to abduct the passengers, I ran into the bush, leaving the vehicle on the road. “They kidnapped many passengers and later set my vehicle on fire.” Samaila appealed to the relevant authorities to come to their aid. Efforts to talk to the commissioner in charge of security, AIG Mamman Tsafe (retd), and the spokesperson for the state police command, SP Mohammed Shehu, failed, as both men did not take their phone calls despite several attempts. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com