Following the directive of the National Executive Council of Academic Staff Union of Universities, the Gombe State University chapter embarked on a nine-hour lecture-free day on Tuesday. Arising from a congress on Tuesday, Chairman of Gombe State University Chapter, Dr Suleiman Jauro, said the lecture-free period would take place between 3pm and 12am, adding that it was geared towards drawing the attention of the government to honour its agreement. He revealed that the GSU chapter was committed to abiding by the decision of the National Executive Council on the continuation or otherwise of the strike. According to him, “We just held a Congress now on the directives of  the National Executive Council to assess the level of implementation of the 2009 agreement in the Memorandum of Action which we have with the government and they have been reneging on this. “As a result of that, Congress was convened and some resolutions were taken; our members are displeased with the level of implementation of this agreement and as a result of that, we have voted for the resumption of the suspended strike action that was suspended in December 2020. “To show our displeasure, we have declared today as a lecture-free day today (Tuesday), effective from 3pm to 12 midnight.” While harping on the need for government to stop the impending strike action, he called on the public to appeal to the authorities to forestall the consequences of the mass action. “We are going to NEC, in the University of Lagos, on February 13; the National Executive Council of the union will decide what action to take, and our branch here is fully ready to abide by the decision. “Government can avert this looming strike by implementing the agreement we have with them. We call on the general public to prevail on the government to do the needful, to honour the pact they have with us,” Jauro added. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com