Traditional rulers in the Delta North Senatorial District have endorsed the agitation of the Delta Central lobby group to produce the next governor of Delta State come 2023. The Delta North tradition rulers gave their nod when the Delta Central 2023 (DC-23) lobby group paid them a consultative visit in Asaba, the State capital on Saturday. The Asagba of Asaba, His Majesty Obi Prof. Chike Edozie and the Obi of Abavo kingdom, His Majesty Uche Irenuma, who spoke on behalf of the monarchs said they were totally in support of the rotation of the governorship seat on the basis of senatorial districts, noting that the DC-23 visit was similar to the one they paid to Delta Central eight years ago. They said, “As traditional rulers, we cannot relocate to other destinations as the ordinary person will do. Delta State and our various kingdoms are where we belong to. “Wherever you belong, you have to create an atmosphere of peace because when there is peace there is progress. DC-23, to be candid, the Delta North people led by HRM Obi Prof. Chike Edozie Asagba of Asaba have been working on a template since the advent of this democratic era. Our political class led by Chief Benjamin Elue, former Deputy Governor and our respected Governor, Senator Dr. Ifeanyi Okowa, who is basically the leader of the political class, have not come to tell us that there is a change of plan”. Speaking further, the Asagba of Asaba said, “What I meant as change of plan is because we supported our son, the present governor on the platform that it is the turn of our senatorial district. Since nobody has come to us that the plan has changed, we are giving the DC-23 the blank assurance that the way you received us and the support you gave to us when we crisscrossed the country is that same support we will give to you”. The Chairman of DC-23, Chief Ighoyota Amori, had earlier stated that the body was a lobby group made up of card-carrying members of the Peoples Democratic Party in the Delta Central Senatorial District. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com