First Bank of Nigeria Limited has said it is rewarding holders of its branded Visa Gold card. According to a statement, the initiative is part of its appreciation of customers, while promoting the adoption of mobile payment solutions in the country. It said the promo would have over 300 Visa Gold cardholders rewarded before end of March 2022. The statement said, “Each month, the first 50 customers with an average transaction value below $150 in the last six months will be rewarded with 10 per cent cashback on transactions carried out on PoS and across the web. “To qualify to be rewarded, the card must be used at least three times monthly on POS/Web (within the campaign period) with a minimum cumulative spend of $300. The maximum transaction value for purchase cashback is $500.” The bank said the first 50 customers with an average transaction value above $150 in the last six months would be rewarded with $50 when they grow their total transaction value by 50 per cent monthly through PoS and Web payments. The bank said the maximum transaction value for purchase cashback is $300. It added that 50 inactive Visa Gold cardholders in the last six months were not left out when they use their cards at least three times monthly on PoS and Web. With a minimum cumulative spend of $150, they are entitled to 10 per cent cashback on transactions, the bank said. FirstBank described its Visa Gold card as an international premium credit card issued in partnership with Visa International. “It is bank’s dollar-denominated card for customers in the mid-affluent segment and is accepted for payment at over 29 million locations and cash withdrawals at over 1.8 million ATMs worldwide,” the statement said. The bank’s Group Executive, e-Business and Retail products, Mr Chuma Ezirim, said, ‘The card, which is accepted globally, is secured with chip and PIN technology. Its transaction limit is $1,000, $10,000 and $5,000 for ATM, POS and Web respectively. “It is available in the self-funded and credit variant. It is denominated in US Dollars with a life span of three years. Appreciating our customers for their patronage is very important to us as we encourage the increased adoption of the Visa Gold card.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com