The Publicity Secretary of the All Progressives Congress in Zamfara State, Idris Yusuf, tells CHUKWUDI AKASIKE that Mahdi Gusau’s impeachment as deputy governor followed due process How would you describe the impeachment of Mahdi Ali Gusau as the deputy governor of the state? The Zamfara State House of Assembly has exercised their function based on the constitution. They have followed due process in Gusau’s impeachment after receiving a formal complaint from the Committee of Public Account. The petition against him (Gusau) was submitted to the Speaker of the House as provided by the constitution. After that, the House of Assembly went ahead to submit its report after voting before going ahead with the impeachment process. The House directed the Honorable Chief Judge of the state to constitute a committee that will investigate the matter with the former judge in Kaduna State as the chairman. So, due process was followed as the former deputy governor was found guilty of the allegations against him. This led to his impeachment as provided by law. Some are of the view that the deputy governor’s impeachment cannot be justified and that he did not commit any crime? Anybody is entitled to his own opinion. But he knows he committed the offence. He had the opportunity to come and defend himself but he did not. He refused to appear before the panel. He did not send his lawyer; he did not come personally as provided by the law. You think Gusau should have made an appearance before the panel even when he is in court on the same matter? He is not in court; some people are just misinterpreting the entire issue. It is just an interim order which has a life span of just 14 days after which it gets another renewable 14 days. He is not in court. The PDP in Zamfara State is insisting that the Zamfara State Government is only playing politics ahead of the 2023 general election by removing Gusau as deputy governor. What is your reaction to this claim? It is not an issue of playing politics. It is a known fact. You can ask the people from the grass roots. Ask them of their opinion, and what you will get is that the deputy should be removed because he is not performing. He is not staying in the office; he is not partaking in any government activity. He is not assisting the governor in any way. Allegations were made and they have found him guilty. Are you saying the governor has no hand in Gusau’s impeachment? Let me state it clearly that the governor has no hand in the removal of the former deputy governor. He (Matawalle) made a pronouncement that despite being in the APC while the deputy governor was in the PDP, he would work harmoniously with him (Gusau). He has displayed that since he (Matawalle) defected last year. It is the former deputy governor that is the architect of his problem. With the recent development in Zamfara State, how sure are you that your party, the APC will win the governorship election next year? By 2023, on the day of the election and by noon, the APC would have won the governorship election. Why are you so sure? This is because the people are with us one hundred per cent and 90 per cent of the political gladiators in Zamfara State are with us. Are you not worried that Gusau will completely pull out his supporters to your political party’s misfortune? He cannot win in his polling unit, even as a deputy governor. I am from the same local government area with him; Gusau Local Government Area. He is not popular and has only been carried along because of the governor’s popularity. The governor is a politician from the grass roots and he has given a sense of belonging to the people, having started politics since 1993. Some political violence was recently recorded in the state. Who should be blamed and why? What sort of political violence are you talking about? Some political thugs reportedly attacked an event organised by the PDP. The PDP members are the architect of their problems because the initial plan was for them to allow people to elect their officials based on their wish. But later, they (PDP) went to a top PDP member’s residence and came out with a list of names as elected members. Based on that, some of the aggrieved members said the congress would not hold. One of the top members of the PDP has already come out to vindicate the governor and the APC. The top PDP member said it was not the problem of the APC but the problem of the PDP, as result of the imposition of candidates on the people. There are insinuations from the opposition party that the governor has not done well in the area of security. How would you react to that? In the area of security, the governor has performed wonderfully well. Again, before he came in as governor, only four markets were in operation. But today, all the markets are in operation without the fear of being attacked or kidnapped. In the area of road rehabilitation, before coming in as governor, all the roads coming into Gusau were not motorable. But now, you can drive smoothly because he has reconstructed all the roads. He has established platforms from where a lot of welfare packages reach the people, including women and youths in the state. One of the platforms is the Zamfara State Social Investment Programme which over 8,000 women benefitted. Women receive stipends monthly from this programme. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com