SIMS Nigeria, official representative of Samsung electronics, Panasonic and other major brands, has announced its first White Friday sales. The Head of Operations, SIMS Nigeria, Rajesh Raja, said the concept of White Friday was to add more positivity to the month of February and offer consumers discounts beyond the traditional Black Friday sales. Speaking during a press briefing in Lagos, Raja said, “This is a new concept. Globally, during the months of November and December, you see a lot of promos going on, especially in Africa and Nigeria. We have started hearing a lot about black Friday, which is during November. Every time, it is announced, people take advantage of that. “Globally, whether you talk about Africa or Asia or Europe, February is usually celebrated mostly as a black month. So, we came up with a positive vibe, let this month not be declared globally as black month or something like that. White normally gives you a positive vibe. “So, we came about this concept White Friday. For this month, let us bring some positivity to it, and we brought some promos for consumers. Huge offers will be given to consumers on our electronic products, which will fit their pockets.” The company’s Executive Director, Corporate Services, Fab Uzor, described the White Friday sales as the company’s way of giving back to its loyal customers. He said in spite of the current economic crunch that had stifled the global economy, the White Friday sales would offer discounts on some of the company’s products to the tune of 80 per cent. “There are many people who desire to own some of these appliances, but because of their lean pocket, they are not able to do it,” he said. The company said the White Friday sales will be held in all of its digital centres across the country next week. According to the company, electronic brands whose products will be sold during the White Friday sales are Samsung, Royal, Panasonic, Philips, Bosch, Kenwood, and Sony. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com