Operatives of the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency have arrested a nursing mother, Mrs Rashidat Adebayo, for dealing in illicit drugs. A statement on Sunday by the NDLEA Director of Media and Advocacy, Femi Babafemi, said the suspect was arrested in Offa, Kwara State, with assorted drugs, including tramadol, swinol, diazepam and pentazocine injection ampules. Before her latest arrest on Thursday, February 17, the 38-year-old had been reportedly arrested and • granted bail on January 24, 2022, for dealing in similar drugs. The agency said it also foiled an attempt by a syndicate to steal about N2.7bn from the Nigerian economy by pushing into circulation fake $4.7m cash. The operatives had in the early hours of Friday, February 18, 2022, intercepted a consignment sent from Lagos to Abuja at the Abaji area of the Federal Capital Territory. Babafemi said a controlled delivery of the parcelled counterfeit totalling $4,760,000 led to the arrest of a principal suspect, 52-year-old Abdulmumini Maikasuwa. “The seizure followed intelligence received by the FCT command of the agency detailing the movement of the cash and the vehicle conveying it. “The Chairman and Chief Executive of NDLEA, Brig. Gen. Mohammed Buba Marwa (retd.), has directed that both the cash and the suspect in custody be transferred to the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission for further investigation,” the statement added. Also, the NDLEA said it arrested two suspected drug dealers: Sani Isa (aka Bilaz) and Bala Yerima in Hong, Adamawa State, with 239 blocks of cannabis sativa weighing 209kg, just as operatives of the Bauchi State command intercepted a truck, marked FFF 422 XB, coming from Lagos to Maiduguri, at Azare, Bauchi. A total of 164.8kg of cannabis sativa concealed in milk cartons was reportedly recovered from the truck.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com