THE Minister of State for State Health, Dr Olorunimbe Mamora, has affirmed the commitment of the Federal Government to local production of vaccines to reduce dependence on international partners or importation. Mamora stated this at the inauguration of the National Executive Committee and Council of the Pharmaceutical Society of Nigeria in Abuja. He gave assurances that the ministry was determined to continue partnering with the pharmaceutical society and relevant stakeholders to improve the health of Nigerians. “The ministry is seriously working towards local vaccine production. Please partner the ministry to ensure we realise the objective. “Currently, the ministry is partnering May and Baker Pharmaceuticals in public/private partnership towards local vaccine manufacturing,” he said. The minister, who reiterated the imperatives of local production of vaccines, said it was aimed at making the country a hub of vaccine manufacturing. According to him, the COVID-19 pandemic has shown that the country cannot continue to depend on importated vaccines, adding, “We must collectively change the narrative.” Mamora urged the pharmaceutical society to collaborate with the ministry to enable Nigeria to achieve independence in vaccine production. He said the ministry would ensure the creation of new pharmacists’ consultancy cadre for public and civil servants. “The cadre confirms a place of specialisation for pharmaceutical practice, especially in clinical settings. The cadre will lead to a better patient management outcome and contribute to the improvement of the nation’s health indices,” he stated. The President, Pharmaceutical Society of Nigeria, Prof Cyril Osifoh, solicited a united and peaceful society of pharmacists to take the organisation to greater heights. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com