Civil rights advocacy group, Human Rights Writers Association of Nigeria on Thursday, told the Department of State Services to stop harassing human rights activists who put the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd), on his toes through critical, objective and active perusal. National Coordinator of HURIWA, Emmanuel Onwubiko, made this known in a statement while reacting to the arrest and release of the Executive Director of the International Press Institute based in Lagos and former President of the National Association of Nigerian Students, Lanre Arogundade. The PUNCH had reported that the activist left Nigeria on January 30, 2022 for Banjul, The Gambia, to attend a conduct a training programme on ‘Conflict Reporting for Journalists’. The training programme was organised by the UNESCO (Gambia) and International Press Institute. Arogundade returned to Nigeria this afternoon but was arrested at the Murtala Muhammed International Airport by secret police. No reason has been adduced for the arrest and detention of Arogundade and his name is not on any watch list. Reacting, HURIWA said, “Though the activist was released hours later after outrage by the civil society community in the country, it is important to note that the SSS has turned itself to an attack bulldog unleashed against anyone perceived as not being part of the shenanigans of the regime of Buhari. “Section 39 of the 1999 Constitution guarantees the freedom of expression and the press.” “The SSS and the attack dogs of the Buhari regime should know that the civil society group in Nigeria won’t be browbeaten and intimidated by the coercive forces of security agents. The government of the day must also realise that Nigeria is under a democracy and there is no room for jackboots and dictator-like tendencies, no matter how subtle it is. “The SSS must publicly apologise to Mr Arogundade for trampling on his fundamental human rights. The secret police must do this and publicise it in national dailies with immediate effect. Nigeria is no Banana Republic,” the statement added. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com