The Celestial Church of Christ Worldwide has suspended five members from worshipping at its New Jerusalem Parish 9, Ilorin, Kwara State, for two years, over alleged breach of peace in the church. The suspension letter, with reference no: CCC/EMF/PO/AD-FCE001/02-22, signed by the Spiritual Head of CCC, Revd Bilehu Oshoffa, and sighted by our correspondent, said the affected members, who were senior elders, were to proceed on two years’ suspension during which they would not worship or participate in other activities in the church. Those suspended according to the letter are Mayaki, Bolaji, Awofadu, Fashakin and Olajide. The letter, according to some members, was read by the church’s task force Chairman, F.A. Adjovic, during service on Sunday. Adjovic stated that the decision to suspend the members from worshipping at the parish was for peace to reign in the house of God. He, however, urged members who had already registered as church workers at the administrative office to report at the headquarters of CCC at Imeko, Ogun State, for postings. A church member, who spoke on the issue with our correspondent, alleged that the affected leaders were fuelling a crisis in the parish by claiming that they were the foundational members and that new members had no say in the church. “This is against the fact that the CCC owns the church,” he said. Reacting to the development, one of the affected elders, Mayaki, who claimed to be a worker appointed from the headquarters of the church, said he had accepted the decision. “They didn’t say we should not attend other Celestial church; it’s only the New Jerusalem Parish 9 that they said we should not worship in. We can worship God anywhere. For me, I am totally okay with the suspension because the church is supreme,” he said. Answering a question on alleged breach of peace at the church, Mayaki, who said that he was posted by the headquarters of the church to minister in Kwara State, said the other four suspended members were laying claims to owning the parish as foundational members. Efforts to get the reaction of the other four suspended members proved abortive. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com