Nasarawa State Governor, Abdullahi Sule, has performed the groundbreaking for the construction of Karu Retail and Recreational Centre to boost economic activities in the area and around the Abuja corridors. Speaking at the ceremony in Karu Local Government Area on Thursday, Sule said the N2 billion project sited at the Muhammadu International Market, Karu, is being executed in collaboration with The Mall company under a Public-Private Partnership arrangement. He explained that the project was a dream come true as it is in line with his administration’s development blueprint for the state, the Nasarawa Economic Development Strategy document. The governor said his administration had leveraged the proximity of Karu to Abuja, the Federal Capital Territory to attract several investments for the socio-economic development of the state, expressing optimism that the project would create job opportunities for the teeming youths in the state. He said, “We are going to build a world-class pedestal bridge to link the Centre with the modern bus terminal, fitted with an electronic advertisement platform that would generate additional revenue for the state. “We are making efforts to unlock the Nasarawa potential and build a self-sufficient economy that allows citizens to strive. So, I am urging both the private and public sector investors to take advantage of the business climate because Nasarawa is no longer a civil service state but a destination for investment.” Earlier, Chief Executive Officer of The Mall company, Yahaya Yahaya, said the project would be completed within one year and that it would feature ShopRite as the retail anchor and a well-balanced tenants mix of indigenous and international food retail chains. He said, “The development of this modern retail and recreational park is beyond building a shopping mall but providing an opportunity for the agriculture sector to grow as food would move from the farm to shelf and to the table. “We are going to feature restaurants, electronic and gadget stores, fashion retailers, pharmacies, expansive recreational park and children’s playground, and other line tenants. On behalf of my company, I want to thank the Nasarawa state government and other stakeholders for the opportunity to be part of the development of the state.” The Managing Director of Nasarawa State Investment Development Agency, Ibrahim Abdullahi, said the project is a landmark partnership for the retail sector in the state while pointing out that Governor Sule was poised to revitalise the economy of the state through private sector participation. He encouraged investors from around the world to take advantage of the business-friendly environment created by the administration, to invest in Nasarawa State. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com