The Abia State Government has confirmed the reported attack by yet-to-be identified gunmen on the newly constructed cattle market in Omumauzor in Ukwa West Local Government Area of the state. An unspecified number of people were reportedly killed during the deadly attack that occurred late Tuesday evening. In its reaction, the state government in a statement signed by the Commissioner for Information and Strategy, Eze Chikamnayo, said, “On Tuesday, February 15, 2022 at about 11:35pm, some yet to be identified hoodlums allegedly invaded traders at the New Cattle Market located in Omumauzor, Ukwa West Local Government Area of our dear state. “Government responded swiftly by mobilising the various security agencies to the scene that night to secure the lives and properties of the innocent traders and fish out the assailants. “This was followed this morning by a high powered team made up of the Chief of Staff, Prof ACB Agbazuere; Commissioner for Trade and Investment, Chief John Okiyi Kalu;  Commissioner for Homeland Security, Chief Sopuruchi Bekee; Executive Chairman of Ukwa West LGA, Chief Okey Kanu, in the company with the state Commissioner of Police, Janet Agbede”. “We are shocked and saddened by this mindless and barbaric act of violence that claimed the lives of about eight innocent citizens of our great country and we totally condemn this dastardly act together with its wicked perpetrators. “We are working assiduously to provide succour to the families of the victims. Those who sustained injuries are currently receiving medical attention. “We have equally started the immediate relocation of the traders while working out compensation for lost properties”. The commissioner further said, “While waiting for the outcome of ongoing investigations by our diligent security forces, the Governor of Abia State, Okezie Victor Ikpeazu, together with all Abians pray for God to grant the families of the victims the fortitude to bear this irreparable loss.” The statement noted that the governor urged citizens to remain law-abiding and promptly report any suspicious movement to the appropriate authorities. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com