Twitter has added a tipping option for its users in Nigeria and has engaged Flutterwave and Paga as payment providers for this service. According to the firm, the new feature enables people on the service to send and receive funds. It said it began experimenting with the feature in May 2021, but has now fully rolled it out for everyone in Nigeria and across Africa. It said in a statement, “Twitter is adding the pan-African payment solutions Barter by Flutterwave and Paga as additional payment providers to Tips. “Barter is a web and mobile app, from leading payments technology company, Flutterwave, that lets you send and receive money from abroad instantly, and safely, at affordable rates. Paga is a payment and financial services ecosystem for Africa. Their consumer app enables consumers to access and use money in the most convenient way for them. “Turning on Tips adds an icon next to your profile, which will now also have a link to Barter and Paga, for quick and easy person-to-person tipping. Tap the icon, and you’ll see the payment services or platforms that the account has enabled, you can select whichever you prefer.” According to the firm, no payment cut will accrue to it, and users can add their Bitcoin address as a payment option on their tips also. The Chief Executive Officer, and Founder of Flutterwave, Olugbenga Agboola, said, “As a frequent Twitter user, creators, artists and businesses add immense value to my experience on the platform – creating an avenue to reward or tip them is a good step in the right direction by Twitter. “So we’re excited to be partnering with them to create a safe, fast and easy way to tip these amazing creators through Barter by Flutterwave. We have the reach and abilities to enable creators from Africa to receive tips from parts of the world. I will likely be one of the biggest users of Tips, and that’s because it’s an awesome feature that has huge potential for the creator economy in Africa.” The Founder and CEO of Paga, Tayo Oviosu, said, “Our mission at Paga is to simplify payments for individuals and businesses. “Through this partnership with Twitter, via Tips, we can create an effective way for Creators to get paid into their Paga accounts, directly from Twitter. As an avid Twitter user, I’m thrilled about this partnership. “Creators are a key demographic we are building for at Paga, and this partnership allows us to enable them to effectively monetize their work. We are really excited about solving payments in the most innovative ways, especially with companies such as Twitter.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com