Armed men suspected to be members of a secret cult on Saturday invaded a burial ceremony in Ebenebe, Awka North Local Government Area of Anambra State, killing about 20 persons. They also desecrated the corpse that was being prepared for burial. Our correspondent gathered that the burial was that of a suspected leader of a cult group, named Ozo. It was also gathered that while the corpse of Ozo was lying-in-state in his compound, some suspected cultists arrived at the scene and shot at the mourners while others scampered to safety. A source said, “My sister was supposed to be at the burial. She and her friends had already prepared to leave Awka for Ebenebe, but the vehicle they booked to take them disappointed them. “She and her friends were so unhappy, and they decided to go in search of another vehicle that can take them. It was in the course of going to the burial that they received a phone call that everybody at the burial had been dispersed by some gunmen. “There is a video from the scene, which showed several persons lying in the pool of their own blood dead, while the corpse was desecrated, with its coffin lying far apart and sprawling on the ground.” It was gathered that members of the community were wailing, while corpses littered the compound. The Anambra State Police command confirmed the incident, stating that it was a case of cult rivalry. The state police spokesman, DSP Toochukwu Ikenga, who responded to the message sent to his phone line, said, “Yes, this morning (Saturday), there was an incident at Ebenebe. A burial was going on when some people suspected to be cultists invaded the area and started shooting. “I do not have details of casualties now, but I will keep you informed once the picture becomes clear. “For now, the Commissioner of Police, CP Echeng Echeng, has despatched tactical squads comprising of various units to the area to maintain calm.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com