The monarch of Ijigba Community in Akure South Local Government Area of Ondo State, Oba Luyi Rotimi, has appealed to the state government to provide social amenities for the community. The traditional ruler noted that inwardly, the community had been making efforts to ensure rapid development in the area of education, health, security among others but still required the complementary assistance from the state government. Oba Oluyi made the appeal to the government during his 10th coronation anniversary held at his palace, in Ijigba town on Saturday. According to him, the community was being administered by various development committees while the committees were being coordinated by an Infrastructural Development Committee, in a bid to have the desired development. He said, “We have two government primary schools set up to feed our two secondary schools which are currently being funded by the community, we pray earnestly to the government of Ondo State for the approval for staffing and funding these two secondary schools. “The community appeals to the government for assistance in the supply of steady electricity and water in the community. We pray the government for the provision of suitable toilets in our community to aid the government policy on open defecation free which is water-driven. “The community urgently require a police post and a magistrate court for a smooth dispensation of law and justice. We are prepared to source for and provide accommodation. “The health centre in Ijigba, inaugurated in 2019, has been a great source of comfort to the community. However, we wish to bring to the attention of His Excellency that the initial staff recruited in 2019 have not been staffed since they started work and some of them have left but a few loyal ones remain and those who left have not been paid either. Mr Governor please help us.” However. in her remarks, the Secretary to the State Government, Princess Oladunni Odu, said the state government had embarked on various developmental projects in various communities across the state, noting that the Ijigba community would soon feel more impacts of the government. Odu, who represented the state governor , Rotimi Akeredolu, at the occasion, commended the monarch for always having love and development of his people at heart. She said the government would look into all the requests made by the king and respond positively to the demands. She said, “You know this state’s economy is being driven by the civil service and now, you want an economy that is industrial-driven. So you are in tandem with what the governor is thinking. “I will deliver all your message to the governor and he will look at it and probably invite you to talk with him further on this.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com