Workers in the maritime sector under the aegis of the Maritime Workers Union of Nigeria have concluded plans to ground port operations of the International Oil Companies over what its described as their non-compliance with the Extant Stevedoring Regulations also known as Government Marine Notice 106 of 2014. As a result, the union said it would embark on an indefinite industrial action against the IOCs, effective March 1, 2022. This was contained in a statement on Tuesday in Lagos jointly signed by the union’s President General, Adewale Adeyanju, and the Secretary General, Felix Akingboye. The union also accused the IOCs of failing to allow ‘stevedoring companies’ access to their platforms to commence operations. The MWUN statement read in part, “We convey to you, Minister, the esteemed regard of the entire members of Maritime Workers Union of Nigeria. We bring to you, the decision of the Central Working Committee of the Union at its meeting held Monday, January 24, 2022, to embark on an indefinite strike action effective from Tuesday, March 1, 2022, over the International Oil Companies’ non-compliance with the Extant Stevedoring Regulations known as Government Marine Notice 106 of 2014” The union added that the action denied the appointed stevedoring companies access to operate on the platform of the IOCs. “It will be recalled that the minister at a meeting held on Wednesday, June 30, 2021, with the International Oil Companies and the representatives of the Nigerian Ports Authority, Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency, Maritime Workers Union of Nigeria, stevedoring companies and other stakeholders directed that the IOCs should within seven days allow the stevedoring companies access to their platforms to commence operations. “It is inconceivable that up till now, the IOCs have bluntly refused to allow the appointed and deployed stevedoring companies to commence operations on the platforms. This is a sharp contravention of the provisions of Government Marine Notice 106 of 2014 Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com