The Nigerian Communications Commission has said inadequate telecommunication infrastructure is hampering the capacity to deliver the broadband penetration Nigeria needs to boost access to services, enhancing economic growth and development. The Executive Vice Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of NCC, Prof. Umar Danbatta, disclosed this during an in-house interview at the commission’s head office, according to a statement. He said, “So, the commission is committed to ensuring inclusiveness by ensuring the provision of affordable and pervasive accessibility to the Internet as emphasised by the International Telecommunication Union and the United Nations. “We are aware that until commensurate infrastructure is deployed in the country, the country may not hit the required target necessary for the desired economic development.” He said the commission remained committed to the implementation of various regulatory initiatives and programmes, in collaboration with stakeholders in the telecom ecosystem. According to him, the NCC seeks to bridge identified gaps and shortages in critical telecom infrastructure in the country. Danbatta stressed the importance of infrastructure to telecom service provisioning, saying the availability of sufficient broadband was non-negotiable and irreducible in the nation’s strategy towards delivering pervasive telecom services. He said the deployment of fifth-generation network in Nigeria would require more infrastructure for the service to reach all parts of the country. He said the telecom architecture was critical in ensuring the achievement of the target of digital access and financial inclusion in the nation. According to him, one area of beneficial financial service riding on telecom infrastructure is the provision of Unstructured Supplementary Service Data for financial transactions across various financial institutions’ platforms. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com