Students of the Federal Polytechnic, Ede, Osun State, on Thursday, went on the rampage following the killing of a graduate of the institution, Hassan Adedeji, by a suspected cultist. Also killed alongside the deceased, who was said to be awaiting mobilisation for the National Youth Service Corps scheme, was a commercial motorcyclist, whose name could not be immediately ascertained. Sources in the community said the victims were shot dead around the Bode area, a few meters away from the polytechnic’s main gate, late on Wednesday. Miffed by the incident, students of the polytechnic on Thursday thronged the streets in protest. The students, who blocked some roads with bonfires and demanded an end to killings in the community, were later addressed by the Timi of Ede, Oba Adesola Lawal. The Public Relations Officer of the polytechnic, Sola Lawal, confirmed the incident and condoled with the colleagues and family of the deceased. He said, “Hassan Adedeji, a Higher National Diploma graduate of Banking and Finance of our polytechnic awaiting his call-up letter, as well as an Okada rider, were shot dead yesterday (Wednesday) night. “The polytechnic management is sad because of this unfortunate incident. But I want to use this medium to appeal to our students to remain calm and be law-abiding, while we await the outcome of police investigation into the circumstances that led to the killing.” The state Police Public Relations Officer, Yemisi Opalola, said the state Commissioner of Police, Wale Olokode, had directed that the suspect be apprehended and brought to justice. She said, “One Rasidi Okolu, a suspected cultist, is the prime suspect and the Commissioner of Police has said he cannot be in a state where an individual or a group will become a threat to other residents. Wherever he is, he will be brought to justice.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com