The Kano State Information Commissioner, Mohammed Garba, on Sunday, described Governor Abdullahi Ganduje’s victory at the Appeal Court as a victory for democracy. Garba, who made the remark at a stakeholders meeting held at the Government House Coronation Hall, said the objective was to celebrate and reflect on the positive impact of the ruling All Progressives Congress on the lives of the people of the state. “We are all gathered here today to express our excitement and deliberate on how to foster unity among all the entire members of the party and forge ahead.” According to Garba, the APC and the State Government have been resilient when an Abuja Federal High Court floored the Ganduje-led faction thrice, only to subsequently re-emerge victorious when the Appeal Court set aside the verdict of the high court and declared the Ganduje-led faction as the winner. “Today’s gathering is to lay another solid foundation for the emaciation of the people of the state from the shackles of poverty, starvation, squalor, and hunger,” he noted. Meanwhile, the Chairman of the Ganduje APC faction, Alhaji Abdullahi Abbas, has extended the olive branch to the Shekarau-led faction. In his remarks at the meeting, Abbas noted that the dispute was normal in participatory democracy. He noted, “Kano APC split into two factions, following parallel congress held by the two factions in Kano. What transpired between us and the Shekarau-led faction is noting but internal party wrangling, which is normal and known in participatory democracy. “I think the era of the usage of abusive words or foul language is over and we should come together and build a united front that would stand the test of time.” In the spirit of reconciliation, Abbas mandated all the ward’s chairmen and their secretaries to reconcile with all aggrieved members, stressing that it was era of forgiveness after the victory. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com