The Rivers State University has threatened to deny promotion to lecturers that failed to participate in a capacity training aimed at realigning them on how to best carry out their duties The University said the aim of the workshop was to enable all academic staff understand the importance and relevance of what they do as academics in a dynamic and ever changing society, noting that those who did not participate may not be promoted. Declaring the two-day workshop open, the Vice-Chancellor, Prof. Nlerum Okogbule, directed the Registrar of the University, Prof. Sydney Eyindah to ensure that proper attendance was taken in order to ensure that the presentation of their certificate of attendance of the workshop became part of the requirements for their promotion. Okogbule said, “It is aimed at equipping you with the capacity and capability to be able to carry out your teaching jobs in a dynamic and rapidly changing society. Since there has been a tremendous transformation of the social, economic and political structure of society manifested in changes in several fields of human endeavour, it becomes imperative for university lecturers to reappraise their roles and re-strategise on how best to carry out their duties in this 21st Century. “In a nutshell, this workshop is underpinned by a realisation of the importance of training and re-training of the work-force to achieve the goals of an organisation. It is in consideration of the foregoing that the university management decided to package this workshop for all Academic Staff of the University. “Attendance at the workshop is, therefore, mandatory and the registrar is hereby directed to ensure that proper attendance is taken. Promotion of staff will be tied to the presentation of the Certificate of Attendance at this workshop.” Speaking earlier, the Director of Quality Assurance, Rivers State University, Prof. Eric Amadi, stated that the training became imperative as lack of regular training of lecturers was negatively impacting on the university visibility and Nigerian University Commission’s ranking. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com