Resident doctors at the Plateau State Specialists Hospital in Jos have shut down the health facility following a strike action they embarked upon. The President of the Association of Resident Doctors, Plateau Specialists Hospital branch, Dr Gogwan Bangs, disclosed this in an interview with journalists in Jos on Monday. “We have asked our members to proceed on strike. The decision to shut down the hospital was taken during our congress last Friday. So, the hospital will remain shut as long as the government is not ready to resolve the issues involved,” Bangs said. The ARD president, who accused the state government of illegal deduction of their salaries, stated, “We have a lot of problems in Plateau hospitals. These issues have been dragging on since 2020 and our members have been enduring maltreatment from the state government. “First, the state government said it can only pay us 80 per cent of the Consolidated Medical Salary Structure, with a promise to pay fully when situations improve and we consented after which we signed an agreement with the government for onward implementation; it was the state Head of Service who signed the agreement on behalf of the government. “Doctors at the hospital have been managing the 80 per cent salary and suddenly, the state government in September 2020 said it wanted to implement a new minimum wage. We were expecting an increment in our salaries, but what we saw eventually was further deduction from the 80 per cent we were collecting before. When we complained, they said it was a mistake. But their claim of a mistake was never corrected. “While we were still struggling for the so-called mistake to be corrected, the government again removed the salaries of doctors from the Consolidated Medical Salary Structure to what they called the grade level structure, which further reduced our monthly salaries. So, we met with the government in June last year that these deductions in our salaries should stop and when we discovered that they did not stop, we met again with the government in December last year. It was agreed that they will take us back to the CONMESS and we signed another agreement that it would be reflected in the January salary for the year 2022. “For reasons best known to them, they delayed our January salary because they knew that they were not going to stop the illegal deductions and when they eventually made the payment last Thursday, we discovered that the amount was far less than the situation before. Based on the worsening situation, our members, who are already tired of government insincerity, met on Friday and took a decision to resume our earlier strike action, which we had suspended because of the lingering issue. It is a total and indefinite strike and members have resolved not to return to their duty posts until the issues are resolved.” The state’s Head of Service, Sunday Hyat, was not readily available to comment on the issues when contacted, as calls put across to his mobile phone were not answered. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com