Borno State Governor, Babagana Zulum, has said that 90 per cent of repentant Boko Haram terrorists have genuinely given up terrorism. Zulum disclosed this in an interview with State House Correspondents on Wednesday shortly after the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), inaugurated the Presidential Committee on the Repatriation, Return and Resettlement of Internally Displaced Persons in the North-East of Nigeria, at the Presidential Villa, Abuja. His position is contrary to the view of his Kaduna State counterpart, Nasir El-Rufai, who said there was nothing like repentant terrorists. Zulum said, “I believe over 90 per cent of those that have surrendered are doing well and have given the government the necessary support. “They are also calling their colleagues in the bush to come out and join the process of peacebuilding.” On the committee’s inauguration, he said “Indeed, we are so much happy, especially those of us that are in the North East because thousands of people were displaced, some are taking refuge in the Republic of Chad, Republic Niger and Cameroon. “And this is the time that the federal government of Nigeria, in collaboration with the state governments of the North East, will facilitate the repatriation of the internally displaced persons that are living in our neighbouring countries to Nigeria. “The committee is also to look into the management of the repentant Boko Haram members. So indeed, we are so grateful, and the entire North Eastern government will give maximum support to this committee. “We will provide the necessary support to the Federal Government under the leadership of Mr President; we shall provide support to the Minister of Humanitarian Affairs and the military to ensure that this process yields the desired result.” Asked if the refugees are ready to return, Zulum said, “They are ever ready. They have been agitating for a return for the last two-and-a-half years. But unfortunately, the enabling environment has not been created for that return. “But now that the Federal Government has acted, all the necessary resources and materials needed to ensure their return in a dignified manner will be provided by the government, and we remain extremely grateful.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com