The National Commission for Refugees, Migrants and Internally Displaced Persons has distributed relief materials and starter packs to over 40 Bakassi returnees in Akwa Ibom State. The empowerment was done at the end of a five-day skill acquisition training, which took place in Uyo. Speaking during the event, a federal commissioner in the commission, Hajiya Sulaiman-Ibrahim, who was represented by the Procurement Officer, Ihenacho Cajetan, said the training was aimed at empowering the internally displaced persons to become self-sufficient and successful entrepreneurs. According to her, it was aimed at turning them into employers of labour rather than depending on the government for financial assistance and employment. Sulaiman-Ibrahim stated, “This training is the first of its kind in Akwa Ibom State and we want to thank the Akwa Ibom State Government and the State Emergency Management Agency for providing an enabling environment for the successful hosting of the training programme. “This programme is aimed at empowering internally displaced persons to become self-sufficient as well as successful entrepreneurs, and also aimed at turning them into employers of labour rather than depending on the government for financial assistance and employment.” She said the agency would in no distant time return to the state for follow-up action to monitor how well the beneficiaries were doing and to assist where necessary. The Desk Officer of SEMA in the Deputy Governor’s office, Isaac Umanah, commended the Federal Government’s agency for the initiative and the successful completion of the training. Umanah expressed optimism that the skill acquisition training would expose participants to the benefits of fishing business as well as ways of diversifying into the full value chain such as packaging, storage and distribution. He expressed the appreciation of the state government for the commission’s decision to bring such an impactful project to the IDPs in the state. Items distributed at the event included 40 bundles of fishing nets, twine ropes, marine hooks, 20 bundles of marine ropes, 20 lends, floaters and cash. The highlight of the event was the presentation of certificates, starter packs and the official handing over of relief materials to participants. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com