Food Concepts Plc, a leading West African multi-brand restaurant platform, has announced the promotion of Mr Kofi Abunu to the post of Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer of the company. The company said in a statement that he would succeed Mr David Butler, who would step down on March 7, 2022, on the expiration of his contract of employment, having led the company with great success since 2014. It said Abunu joined the company in 2007, and has served as Divisional Managing Director (Business Development) of the company since 2017. The statement said he was selected and appointed as MD/CEO-designate, following a rigorous and structured process that had been conducted over a 12-month period. “The company has been in a very fortunate position to have a great pool of talent; hence, the appointment falls in line with the company’s deep commitment to developing and producing talent from within the organisation. This appointment from within reflects our company’s commitment to human resource development,” it said. According to the statement, Abunu has over 28 years’ experience in the food and hospitality industry and a diploma in hotel management. He also has a BA (Hon) International Business and Marketing from University of London and CIMA UK, and previously worked at McDonald’s (UK), Nandos, Innscor/Famous Brands (Steers and Debonairs). Commenting on the appointment, the Chairman of Food Concepts, Mr. Ayo Olagundoye, said, “We are proud and pleased to welcome Kofi Abunu as Managing Director of the company driving our ambitious strategy both within and outside Nigeria. We wish him the best and assure him of the full support of the board. Equally, we pay tribute to David Butler for his exemplary leadership, vision, and passion, which have built Food Concepts into one of the great retail success stories in West Africa and offer our sincere thanks for all he has done for the company and our over 5,000 people”. The statement said Butler expressed confidence that Abunu would make strong contributions to the company and its future strategic development plans. It said, “Food Concepts Plc has experienced phenomenal growth over the past few years, and he is delighted to be handing over a business to Mr Kofi Abunu and a team of highly experienced, passionate, and very capable leaders. “Mr David Butler’s tenor as Managing Director has transformed the business and seen a period of dramatic growth, even amidst tough macro-economic conditions and the COVID-19 pandemic, and the company has benefitted immensely from his exceptional leadership. The entire board, management and staff of Food Concepts Plc acknowledge the outstanding contributions of Mr Butler to the growth of the company and wishes him the very best in his future endeavours.” The company also announced two other senior appointments. It said Mrs Anthonia Agbonifo, currently an Executive Director, had been appointed to a new function as Executive Director (International Finance and Shared Services). The statement said her portfolio would include overseeing domestic and International financing for the company, as well as leading the Shared Services team. It said Mr Ikenna Okongwu, currently Divisional Managing Director (Operations), had been appointed as an Executive Director and will join the Board of Directors, effective March 7, 2022.