President of the Senate, Ahmed Lawan, has expressed the willingness of the present administration of the All Progressive Congress to develop the country for good, saying that they were in a hurry to develop the country. Lawan disclosed this at a Mega Empowerment Programme organised by the Senator representing Kwara North District, Sadiq Umar, held at Kwara state Polytechnic mini stadium in Moro Local government area of Kwara state. He said that regime of the President, Major General Muhamadu Buhari (retd.) was working hard to fix infrastructural challenges and urged all Nigerians to continue to support the government. He reiterated the need to partner with the state government and the local government adding, “The partnership has been so purposeful and impactful, that today, in every every part of Nigeria you have what we called infrastructure development. “Federal government of President Buhari is in a hurry. We are in a hurry to develop Nigeria. In four years between 2019 and 2023 by the grace of God Nigeria would have been turned into an infrastructure laboratory because every part of Nigeria from East to the West to the North to the Soutj. In the East the second Niger bridge today is about 75 percent completion level. “The synergy between our state and Federal government of Nigeria is working. It is making Nigeria to be developed. We have never seen infrastructure like that of this administration.” While commending the constituency projects of Senator Umar, Lawan said, “Constituency projects are direct touch of the needs of the communities.” He, however, urged the beneficiaries to make good use of the items given to them. “Beneficiaries, please don’t sell whatever you are given. If you sell whatever is given to you, you are doing injustice to yourself. You are also doing injustice to those who would have benefited from it. Please don’t sell, use whatever you are given because is meant to make your life better,” he pleaded. Lawan also called on the people of Kwara State to continue to support Governor AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq to consolidate on his remarkable achievements in the last two years, saying that his administration has delivered on key components of governance in a way and style not seen over the past decade in the state. He acknowledged the humility and maturity of the Governor in handling of state matters, commending his leadership of the state and its people. “Your Excellency, the APC administration in Kwara State is barely two and half years. We know how far we have gone in just two and half years.” The Senate President particularly praised AbdulRazaq for working closely with the three senators from Kwara to perform their legislative functions with comfort and bring dividends of democracy to the people of the state. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com