The Federal Government has called for closer collaboration between Nigeria and the United States in the Creative and Culture Industry, especially in improving the quality of Nollywood movies. The Minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed, made the call when he received the United States Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for African Affairs, Ms Akunna Cook, in Abuja on Thursday. Special Assistant To The President (Media), Office of The Minister of Information and Culture, Segun Adeyemi, disclosed this in a statement. Mohammed was quoted as saying, “Of immediate importance to us in Nigeria at this time is how to continue to improve the quality of our films. As you know, Nollywood, as our film industry is known, is among the top three in the world. “Yes, the quality of our films have improved incrementally over the years, but we can still benefit from the rich experience of America’s Hollywood, the undisputed world best. “Apart from improving the quality of our production through technical training and exchanges, we will also like to learn a few tricks in the area of Animation.” The Minister listed some strategic interventions from the Federal Government in the creative industry to include the N22.9bn Central Bank of Nigeria Creative Industry Financing Initiatives; the N1bn Bank of Industry Nollyfund; another N1bn Bank of Industry Fashion and Beauty Fund; N-Power Creative and Project Act Nollywood Federal Grant. This is as he revealed that the government is still exploring other avenues to further give the sector a lift. In her remarks, Ms Cook said during her three-day visit to Nigeria, she focused on the developments in the Creative Industry and Digital Technology. She described the industry as a driver of the economy and a significant player in changing the world’s perception of Africa, particularly Nigeria. While commending the Federal Government for refurbishing the National Theatre in Lagos, she said the US Government is ready to collaborate with Nigeria towards boosting the creative industry in the country. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com