The lawmaker representing Egbeda/Ona Ara Federal constituency, Akin Alabi, has urged the newly inaugurated Chairman of All Progressive Congress in Oyo State, Isaac Omodewu, to work assiduously in uniting party members across the state. The PUNCH had earlier reported that state chairmen were inaugurated on Thursday by the Mai Mala Buni-led Caretaker Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee of the All Progressives Congress at the party’s national secretariat in Abuja. The state chairmen who emerged from the state congresses conducted last October were sworn-in by Yobe State Governor, Mai Mala Buni, who was represented by the APC National Secretary, John Akpanudoedehe. Congratulating Omodewu on his new role through a post on his Twitter handle on Friday, Alabi tasked the new chairman to hit the ground running by bringing all warring factions together to ensure the party’s success during forthcoming elections. He tweeted, “Congratulations to the new chairman of the APC in Oyo State, Hon Isaac Omodewu. Sir, the work has just started. Your first assignment will be to bring all warring factions together so we can present a united front in the coming polls. From my side, you can count on my support.” The inaugurated state chairmen include Kingsley Ononogbu (Abia), Ibrahim Bilal (Adamawa), Augustine Ekanem (Akwa Ibom), Basil Ejike (Anambra), Babayo Misau (Bauchi), Dennis Otiotio (Bayelsa), Augustine Agada (Benue), Ali Dalori (Borno), Alphonsus Eba (Cross River) Omeni Sabotie (Delta), Stanley Emegha (Ebonyi), David Imuse (Edo), and Omotosho Ayodele (Ekiti). Others are Ogochukwu Agballah (Enugu), Nitte Amangal (Gombe), Macdonald Ebere (Imo), Aminu Gumel (Jigawa), Emmanuel Jekada (Kaduna), Muhammed Sani (Katsina), Abubakar Kana (Kebbi), Abdullahi Bello (Kogi), Sunday Fagbemi (Kwara), Cornelius Ojelabi (Lagos), John Mamman (Nasarawa), Haliru Jikantoro (Niger), and Yemi Sanusi (Ogun). Ade Adetimehin (Ondo), Adegboyega Famodun (Osun), Isaac Omodewu (Oyo), Rufus Bature (Plateau), Emeka Bekee (Rivers), Ibrahim El-Sudi (Taraba), Muhammed Gadaka (Yobe), Tukur Danfulani (Zamfara), and Abdulmalik Usman (FCT) were also among those inaugurated. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com