She’s said to have already served four out of her nine year prison term. Someone who met her in prison is said to have expressed concerns that she may not live to finish her term due to the state of her mind. She’s in her seventies and was headed to Europe for “omugo” when she was nabbed for carrying drugs in her suitcase. What nobody found believable is that a son would package drugs for his unsuspecting and barely literate mother to ferry. A mama that could barely understand a word in English. A few years back, I accompanied a loved one to India for medical attention. An acquaintance that I met on social media was on ground to help out with the logistics (hotel, mobility, sightseeing and shopping) and he didn’t disappoint. In fact, his efforts (FREE o!) made my Indian experience somewhat bearable. He even took me to an African restaurant in Delhi, run by a lady from Cameroun named Carol or so. That seems to be a converging point for a lot of them that just arrived in the country. I had the opportunity to talk to some of them that I met on that day. One said he sold the only land his father had to travel to India and ended up waiting tables at Carol’s. The environment was depressing and I remember asking if the attraction was Carol’s heavy back side and they lost me with laughter. Anyway, it was time for us to leave for Nigeria and our gracious “guide” said his friend back home was disturbing him to send something to him because he was broke. He showed up in our hotel room with about five packet shirts for me to deliver to a friend in Lagos. I wondered why a BROKE person would need clothes instead of money. And I told him to tell me how much to credit his friend with. In exchange, he would sort out the rest of our expenses in the local currency. Out of curiosity though, I began to “feel” the T-shirts with my bare hands. The collar felt rather stuffed! I didn’t voice my suspicion until several months later, during a whatsApp chat and he blocked me after swearing at me. It was my first experience of the INHUMAN desperation with which our young men chase money. Is there still a soul in anybody who could go to sleep knowing he has callously made another a VICTIM? Do they understand that life makes people PAY dearly for such inhumanity? I was invited to a house warming event recently and left the event extremely worried for our young men. It was like a battle for recognition on the latest wonders on wheels, big titles and how many “umu-asa”(young ladies) in the entourage of the men based overseas. When MC1 was not announcing the arrival of “this money bag in Brazil”,MC 2 was announcing the arrival of another “money somebody” in China. I kept telling myself that this is probably what it is all about, just so someone can answer an “Eze-Ego” (king of money) somewhere! Frankly, I love the CAN DO spirit of our men. But what I find most needless is the pressure for “ego mbute” (packing money). Desperation is the easiest pathway to soullessness. And LIFE punishes that, too. I shared this story on social media and not a few ladies reached out with similar experiences. The modus operandi was always the same, doing a friend you thought you knew a favour of helping them deliver items to their loved ones back home. In fact one concluded that ‘’since my own experience,’’ I look at every female drug offender as a victim. Copyright PUNCH All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com