The House of Representatives’ Joint Committee on Customs and Excise; Finance; and Banking and Currency, on Monday, failed to broker a truce between the Federal Government and Adani Mega Systems Limited over a deal reached with the firm to digitalise scanning operations of Nigeria Customs Service. The committee decried that the multiple suits filed by Andani against the government parties in the $3.1bn could cause the country to lose the projected $8.810bn annual revenue that e-Customs was meant to achieve. The committee held an investigative hearing on Monday on the “need to resolve the debacle between Central Bank of Nigeria/Technical Committee on Comprehensive Import Supervision Scheme and Adani Mega Systems Ltd hindering the take-off of Nigeria Customs Service Modernisation Project.” The Chairman of the House Committee on Customs and Excise, Leke Abejide, said, “There has been back and forth on the issue of e-Customs modernisation project, whose objective is to completely automate every aspect of Nigeria’s Customs administration. “From our findings, which is the major reason for today’s meeting, a PPP arrangement was made with a certain consortium (Huawei Consortium) using the special purpose vehicle – e-Customs HC Project Ltd.” According to him, the cost of concession implementation over a 20-year period is $3.1bn and the project is projected to generate about $176.2bn within the 20 years concession period. Abejide said, “We equally understood the SPV is to recover their investment based on negotiated and staggered recovery strong ratios from the Comprehensive Import Supervision Scheme and the Nigerian Export Supervision Scheme. “The sum of $8.810bn will be generated yearly from the implementation of the project, which, I believe, shall be more if properly implemented, and this will go a long way to reduce our vulnerability to external debts and it will strengthen our currency too.” However, the Federal Ministry of Finance, Budget and National Planning, in its written submission to the committee, recalled that the Technical Committee on Comprehensive Import Supervision Scheme entered into an agreement with Messrs Adani Mega Systems Limited on March 20, 2017 as the service provider for enterprise screening platform for the inspection of all inbound and outbound cargoes on a ‘build, operate and own’ basis. According to the submission presented by the Director of Home Finance, Stephen Okon, who represented the Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning, Zainab Ahmed, the technical committee cancelled the agreement via a letter with reference number TED/DIR/GAM/GEN/01/025 and dated September 18, 2017. The ministry said the cancellation was based on “further due diligence which revealed that the technical partners of the company (Messrs. Adani International Ltd), a company registered in the United Kingdom, did not possess the required expertise in relation to the project field nor proven track record in the execution and operation of projects in the field covered by the contract.” It added that the technical committee noted that the misrepresentations were “material breaches that affected the company’s integrity, capacity and competence to deliver on such a project, given its importance to the Nigerian economy.” The ministry said the company, in an effort to validate its contract with TC-CISS, instituted cases in courts against the Federal Government for breach of contract allegedly entered into between it and the technical committee on the CISS. The ministry said, “Presently, there are three active cases in court on the matter at the instance of the company. There is no doubt (that) the pending cases are impeding the commencement of the e-Customs project. “In order to pave the way for the take-off of the project, the ministry is liaising with the Office of the Honourable Attorney General of the Federation to ensure that the arbitration is speedily concluded. This, we believe, could settle all the pending matters and allow the e-Customs project to commence without further delay.” The NCS alleged that TC-CISS “secretly and illegally entered an agreement with Messrs Adani Mega System Limited to “build, operate and own” scanning services infrastructure at designated ports across Nigeria, without consultation or knowledge of the Federal Ministry of Finance or Nigeria Customs Service.” The Controller-General, NCS, Col. Hameed Ali (retd.), whose written submission was presented by an Assistant Controller-General (ICT and Modernisation), Saidu Galadima, said, “This information was leaked to the Service by a whistle-blower who was introduced to the NCS by the House Committee on Customs, backed with relevant documents.” “Consequently, the Chairman of the CISS committee was invited by the Comptroller General of Customs and after series of discussions, he was made to realise that the committee, being a non-juridical person, lacked the capacity to enter into any legal agreement. “Furthermore, investigations carried out by the Service revealed that Messrs Adani Mega Systems Limited outsourced the agreement to an unauthorised third party, Adani International Limited (UK), registered four months after the agreement was signed, and the company has since been dissolved.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com