Since March 2020, COVID-19 has put spanners on our social and economic order. One of the unravelling consequences of the historic disruptions wrought by the pandemic is the grossly uneven gendered and racialised nature of those shouldering the ensuing burden. Across all labour and occupational sectors, frontline workers and essential service providers have become sacrificial beasts of burden.  They range from store employees, waiters, transit providers, farm workers, meat packers, delivery personnel to all cadres of workers at the middle and bottom of the hierarchical pyramid of healthcare—registered nurses, practical nurses, personal support workers, living-in caregivers, security personnel, janitors, etc.  Despite the diversity of these occupational and labour categories, they are dominated mainly by Blacks and other racialised immigrant populations in the Western world. In the context of the healthcare sector, the so-called frontline workers are mainly women. These categories of workers have proved to be the backbone of our survival through the pandemic. They are often singled out by politicians and a range of policymakers as “heroes.” There has been no dearth of platitudes directed at them. Citizens are also not left out albeit that, on occasions, some vent their frustrations on them. Notwithstanding, there are many moving tales of citizens awed in gratitude, some banging pots and others promoting celebratory acts of communal solidarity over the resilience of our ‘front-liners’. And, of course, these are all for good reasons. A decent society owes a lot to those who go to work at times of crisis, and at the risk of their personal safety, when a majority is asked to work from home. However, in the case of highly racialised and gendered frontline workers, more than two years into the pandemic and through its various waves, these platitudes have proved to be convenient and fleeting political jingles. While the essential nature of the work is not contested, the racialised and gendered nature of those who do the essential work has not allowed governments and society to treat them with fairness and justice commensurate with the work they do. Various pandemic pay premiums and reliefs in some cases directed at the frontline workers quickly fizzled out, notwithstanding the continuing intensity of the pandemic and the emergent variants. In the case of the PSWs in long-term care institutions, the working conditions have continued to deteriorate. Even up to the present Omicron wave of the pandemic, a shortage of staff strength remains unaddressed. The working environment is increasingly toxic. Polls show staff motivation to be at an all-time low. Care providers are caught in the middle of making impossible decisions that compromise the quality of client care while exposing caregivers to occupational hazards for no fault of theirs. As a mainly racialised and gendered demographic, those at the bottom of the healthcare pyramid operate daily under the unabating burden of overbearing and privileged supervisors. The latter often operate from the cosy comfort of their homes and offices. A common refrain directed at these workers is that they should be happy they have a job. Guaranteed paid sick leave remains a mirage, leaving workers no option but to conceal their sick status.  Reporting sick results in loss of pay, a risky proposition for those who live paycheque to paycheque.  After two years, there is no felt sense of reprieve or shift from the status quo for the racialised and gendered segments of our frontline workers save for fleeting platitudes. For them, discrimination and all forms of intimidation and coercion remain the permanent dish in their workplace menu. It is difficult to absolve systemic racism and gender biases from the half-hearted treatment of racialised frontline workers. Arguably, their lack of voice and empowerment is systemically leveraged by employers amidst the government’s failure of resolve. Collectively, society is complicit in unrequited compensation for “women’s work” either at the domestic or occupational level such as is the case with the Black and other racialised minority at the bottom of the healthcare pyramid. The plight and powerlessness of these workers are compounded by systemic access barriers to critical institutions relating to occupational hazards and worker safety. To these lesser educated and mainly new immigrant demographics, those institutions are riddled with bureaucratic rabbit holes. In this, the second Black History Month of the ongoing pandemic, governments and the citizens, especially in the western world need to forgo the opportunist rain of platitudes for mainly Black and other racialised and gendered frontline workers. Instead, there is a need to make permanent policy changes to protect those workers. Real recognition of heroism includes legislating for sick pay, pandemic pay, workplace safety measures and a rate of pay that reflects the intensity and difficulty of the work done.  All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com