Hon. Muhammad Lawan Yahaya, the Chairman, Madobi Local Government Area of Kano State, has disclosed that the council has compensated farm owners whose lands were put aside for the establishment of satellite towns and industrial clusters at Maraya Burji and Kwankwaso towns. The council boss disclosed this while speaking at the commencement of the settlement exercise in the local government. Represented by the Local Government Vice Chairman, Alhaji Saidu Dan Wada, Yahaya said the project was aimed at creating modern cities in order to reduce the pressure of the residential needs on Kano metropolis. Aside from reducing the pressure, the council boss said the projects would also create industrial clusters for enhanced economic activities and self-reliance, among the rural dwellers. “Madobi LG is a short distance away from Kano metropolis and coming up with a project of this type is of great importance to our people. All stakeholders need to partake in this monumental project for the overall transformation of our locality.” On his part, the Emir of Karaye, Dr Ibrahim Abubakar II, who spoke through San Turakin Karaye, Alhaji Sani Abubakar, expressed satisfaction, with the exercise, adding that it would serve as a catalyst of development and modernity to the of the area. To this end, the monarch urged the people of the affected communities to give all the needed support to ensure the success of the project. “Your unflinching support is very much critical, as every step taken to the noble exercise is a triumphant feat.” In his remarks, the District Head of Madobi, Alhaji Saleh Musa Saleh, commended the local administration for the foresight and thanked the Emir of Karaye for throwing his weight behind the exercise from its inception to date. The Director, Personnel Management of Madobi Local Government, Alhaji Rabiu Daurawa, said the local government would discretely follow all segments of the projects to ensure due diligence to its plan. The payment was made under the supervision of officials from Kano Urban Development and Planning Agency to ensure proper demarcation of the affected farms. One of the farm owners who received his compensation, Mallam Muhammadu Sani, expressed satisfaction and prayed for a hitch-free prosperous project. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com