The duty collected on imported used vehicles and other cargoes through Ports & Terminal Multipurpose Limited, one of the terminals in Apapa, increased to N224.47bn last year. According to a document obtained by our correspondent from the PTML command of the Nigeria Customs Service, the number represents 19 per cent increase compared to the N189.35bn recorded in 2020. It also showed that vehicle importation rose by 10.8 per cent from 203,319 units in 2020 to 226,892 units in the 2021. Commenting on the data, the Public Relations Officer, PTML command of the NCS, Muhammad Yakubu, attributed the increase to proper declaration by importers and agents at the command and the closure of the land borders. He said, “The cargo throughput we had from January to December 2021 was quite different from what we had in 2020 last year; we had a tremendous increase of almost 25,000 units of car. The reason was not far from the high compliance level that we recorded. “And you will also notice that all the land borders were closed and you know PTML is roll-on-roll off port, so almost 80 per cent of the cargoes that come through PTML are vehicles. And because of that, there was an increment. People are no longer using the land borders to come in with vehicles; you have no option than to either come in through PTML or through Tin-Can. So there was an increase.” He said the Controller in charge of the command, Festus Okun, on assumption of office, put some strategies in place to ensure proper valuation of cargoes. Yakubu said the measures yielded fruits as there was 75 per cent compliance at the command by importers and their agents as regards valuation in 2021. He said, “Also, the COVID-19 pandemic was another reason cargoes throughput dropped in 2020. There was a slowdown in cargoes throughput in 2020 that lead to an increase in 2021. The command also put some measures in place. When the controller came on board, he took some certain measures. “If he finds out that you tamper with the valuation paper, you will have to go and collect the maximum revenue from it. They will raise a debit note for you; you will go and pay before you can take delivery of your cargo. “So, he has taken some certain measures to curtail infractions. He ensures you do the right thing the way it is supposed to be done. The measures that are on ground have helped to increase the compliance level. If it is in a scale of 0-100, I will say that there was 75 per cent compliance at the command as at 2021.” Yakubu said with the introduction of e-valuation for cars, cargo throughput would be on the increase this year. Meanwhile, freight forwarders have predicted a 10 per cent drop in vehicle importation into the country due to the recently introduced e-valuation policy. The PTML Chapter Chairman of the Association of Nigerian Licensed Customs Agents, Samuel Obey, said, “On importation, I agree that importation is almost lower in the first quarter of every year but with what they are doing now, it may even drop to less than 10 per cent because of high valuation.” The PTML Chapter Chairman, National Association of Government Approved Freight Forwarders, George Okafor, said, “Since last year, the percentage of inflow of vehicles is high but the issue we are having now is this. Since the e-valuation took off, you can’t get value on the spot. Vehicle importation is going down. At Grimaldi, it is only 180 semi knock downs both containerised and vehicles, and today we don’t know how many that would be declared because of this e-valuation.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com