The Kwara State Government has re-echoed its readiness to rid the local government councils of ghost workers in order to reduce the cost of governance, especially recurrent expenditure. The Commissioner for Local Government, Chieftaincy Affairs and Community Development, Aliyu Saifudeen, disclosed this in Afon, headquarters of the Asa Local Government Area of the state during the monitoring of ongoing projects in the council. A statement by Oba Azeez, the Press Secretary, Ministry of Local Government, Chieftaincy Affairs and Community Development, quoted Saifuddeen as saying, “It is quite unfortunate that we have found ourselves where some acclaimed council workers have abandoned their work to take up other jobs elsewhere, while still drawing salaries and allowances from the councils’ coffers.” He implored the management of the local governments to help the system by genuinely identifying the culprits in order to free-up scarce resources to accommodate developmental projects. The commissioner reminded the workers that the administration of Governor AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq had restored the lost glory of council workers through prompt payment of full salaries, cash backing of promotions, payment of arrears, and most importantly, the recently concluded consequential adjustments. Speaking on projects inspected, Saifuddeen commended the council on the choice of projects embarked upon, which he said was attested to by the large turnout of people in the benefiting communities to show their appreciation. At the Budo Egba Health Centre, the commissioner commended the council boss for the prompt relocation of the centre to accommodate the commencement of the newly-established Federal Neuropsychiatric Hospital in the state by the Federal Government. Earlier in his welcome address, the Transition Implementation Committee Chairman for the Asa Local Government Area, Abdulganiyu Saad, said all the projects embarked upon by the council were based on the priorities of the communities. Saad implored other communities with similar requests to be patient as the council would soon attend to them as soon as funds were available. The TIC chairman enumerated some of the projects embarked upon to include the complete renovation of the Elebue Health Centre, ongoing construction of a new health centre at Budo Egba, construction of the Adere Bridge along Alapako Road and drilling of boreholes across the three districts of the council, among others. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com