Olubosin of Ifetedo, Oba Akinola Akinrera, has extolled Osun state governor, Adegboyega Oyetola for the various initiatives that have transformed the state. Speaking on behalf of the traditional rulers in Ife-South Local Government Area, Olubosin of Ifetedo Kingdom, Oba Akinola Akinrera, while receiving Oyetola and his entourage to his domain, commended the governor for bringing to life the dilapidated Ifetedo General Hospital. He explained that the revitalisation of the general hospital and other primary healthcare centres across the council had contributed significantly to the healthy living of the people of the areas as it had become the signpost of quality healthcare service delivery. Oba Akinrera said, “On behalf of traditional rulers and the good people in Ife-South Local Government Area, I thank Mr. Governor for his tremendous achievements and for providing quality leadership in the last three years. We are particular about our Local Government where a lot of infrastructural developments have been done to make lives comfortable for the people. “If I don’t know much of what you have done, I am fully aware of your intervention in the health sector. “I remember vividly that before you were elected in 2018, prior to my installation, the general hospital was in abysmal status and abandoned because of the dilapidated structures to the extent that goats could not deliver or give birth therein. But I thank you for refurbishing and equipping it with quality and state-of-the-art facilities. “You might not know the importance of what you did to us because that hospital alone has become the central place for quality healthcare service delivery in the entire council and beyond. To complement this, your administration also revitalised all our primary health care facilities across the nooks and crannies of the council.” Speaking on behalf of the traditional rulers in Ife-North State Constituency, during the governor’s visit to the area, the Salu of Edunabon, Oba Kehinde Oladepo, assured the governor of his people’s support, saying they have already made up their minds to return him with their votes come July 16 governorship election. Oba Oladepo who represented the Chairman of the Traditional Council in the Local Government and Apetumodu of Ipetumodu, Oba Olusegun Joseph Oloyede, commended the governor for being faithful to his electoral promises. A statement by the Chief Press Secretary to the governor, Ismail Omipidan, noted that Oyetola in his remarks, assured that his administration would remain committed to taking the state to enviable heights ever known in history. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com