The Managing Director/Chief Executive, Nigeria Deposit Insurance Corporation, Mr Bello Hassan, has said the corporation will continue to build capacity in procurement processes. Hassan spoke at a two-day capacity building workshop for management staff of the corporation in Lagos on Saturday. He said, “In furtherance to remain a learning and growth institution to keep abreast with the development in the procurement processes such as the recently published upward review of approval threshold and its implications on procurement, the NDIC found it necessary to hold this retreat. ‘This would further engage the BPP (Bureau of Public Procurement) in a deeper conversation on the NDIC challenges in the procurement processes. The aim of this management retreat is to ensure that participants acquaint themselves with salient provisions of the Public Procurement Act, 2007 and to have a greater understanding of the procurement processes.” Hassan said the corporation had maintained a cordial and progressive engagement with BPP over the years in different capacities which had empowered the NDIC to discharge its mandate more efficiently and effectively to satisfy its stakeholders’ expectations. According to him, on a yearly basis, the employees of NDIC attend various BPP capacity building programmes offered at ABU Zaria and FUT, Owerri, and the corporation has a total number of 10 certified staff in the procurement department as of December, 2021. The Director-General, BPP, Mamman Ahmadu, who was represented by the Director, Compliance, Certification and Monitoring, Ishaq Yahaya, said the Public Procurement Act was enacted in 2007 and efforts were in progress to review and address some of the challenges in the Act.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com