The Chief Executive Officer of Coleman Wires and Cables, Mr George Onafowokan, has the removal of petrol subsidy in Nigeria will boost investment in the nation’s oil and gas industry. Onafowokan said the long-term impact would open up the economy and allow the private sector to drive the economic elements that would lead to large-scale industrialisation, foreign direct investments and job creation. He, however, said the short-term effects of the removal of petrol subsidy would increase the cost of living. “Fuel price going up by 100 per cent or more does not mean an instantaneous 100 per cent increase on everything. No matter your overhead cost, fuel alone cannot account for all the increase. An impact of the increase in fuel price by 100 per cent might mean a 20 or 30 per cent increase in products prices,” he said in an interview with our correspondent. According to Onafowokan, the deregulation of diesel and gas has given room for private industries to function without unnecessary government interventions and bottlenecks. He said, “We have deregulated diesel for about 10 to 12 years. It started from the Obasanjo regime when they deregulated and said they were not subsiding diesel. Has the economy not readjusted itself. We are buying diesel for N350; has anybody complained? It’s been going up and down over the last 12 to 13 years. How it impacts production, how it impacts transportation has become part of the adjustable price index. “The same thing has happened in gas. We all buy gas. Gas in Nigeria is deregulated totally, but the industries are the ones paying for it. We even complained it’s over-priced because it’s rated in dollars. Today, if you go outside Nigeria, you will buy gas between $4 and $5. In Nigeria, it is $7.90, but the industries are literally coping with the impact of this.” He said that for Nigeria’s economy to reach its full potential, the private sector must step up to the plate and become more involved in production. Onafowokan said, “We need to move away to allow investments. If we look at it, where are we seeing the first investment in the oil sector? It is modular refineries. What do modular refineries first produce? Diesel, because it’s deregulated. “I’m not going to be looking at the government to make investments in petroleum products anymore. Any business in the world will now see Nigeria as a viable investment. We look too much at the government to make decisions. We don’t look at the private sector impact of that decision. We need to get away from government direction to driving our economy through private sector. There is no economy that thrives well with the government being the biggest business owner. I haven’t found one.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com