The United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime has asked for improvement on the strategy to protect women and child victims of insurgency in Nigeria. A statement by the agency on Friday said that in the past years, multiple armed groups, including Boko Haram and its splinter faction, Islamic State of West Africa Prounce, have used children as strategic pawns for their terror tactics. The statement added that Boko Haram had abducted, recruited, and exploited thousands of children since it began attacks around the Lake Chad Basin in 2009. From 2017 to 2019, the United Nations  verified 5,741 grave violations against children in the North-East while 1,385 children had been recruited and used by Boko Haram. The UN agency decried that some boys had been forced to attack their own families to demonstrate loyalty to Boko Haram. “Girls have been killed when forced to carry out roles as fighters and suicide bombers, in addition to being subjected to forced marriages and sexual violence. When these children exit the groups, they have experienced prolonged violence, their bonds to the communities have been severed, their personal development has been warped, and they continue to face stigma and social exclusion,’’ the UNODC noted. “It added, UNODC has been supporting the efforts of Nigeria in preventing and responding to violence against children by terrorist and violent extremist groups, under a new European funded project called STRIVE Juvenile. The project aims to increase resilience of children and society against violent extremist and terrorist tactics. It revealed that from January 25-27, 2022, STRIVE Juvenile implemented its first capacity-building workshop on ‘protecting child victims and witnesses in terrorism-related proceedings’. The workshop reportedly trained 29 professionals from the security sector, justice system, and child protection on strategies to improve the protection of as child victims and witnesses as well as recruitment and exploitation by terrorist groups. At the workshop, it was acknowledged that protecting society from the threats associated with terrorism goes hand in hand with protecting children from being recruited and exploited by terrorist groups, with Nigeria recognizing the urgency of appropriate responses. Rear Admiral YEM Musa from the Office of the National Security Adviser, emphasized that “Investment in rehabilitation and peace, especially as it concerns our children, is essential to end the cycle of violence that is generated and exploited by the terrorists and violent extremists”. This was also echoed by the representative of the European Union, Mr Jerome Rivière, who stressed that the STRIVE Juvenile project “recognizes the importance of children’s role as agents of peace and in their potential to transform societal dynamics. When children and families do not feel safe, counterterrorism cannot work”.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com