Earnipay, a financial technology company that provides salary access to income-earners, says it has closed a seed round of $4m. It said in a statement that it would use the seed round to accelerate the development of its technology platform to serve large enterprise employers, and provide employees with the tools needed to make better financial decisions and improve their quality of life. The fintech said it planned to offer its on-demand salary solution to 200,000 employees by the end of 2022. The Chief Executive Officer, Earnipay, Nonso Onwuzulike, said, “Financial worries are the leading cause of distractions in the workplace. The monthly pay cycle means employees are often unable to afford daily expenses, cover emergencies or take advantage of immediate financial opportunities. “As a result, they become exposed to predatory payday loans and get stuck in unending debt cycles with unrealistic payback periods and expensive interest rates. Earnipay exists to address this problem and offer an ethical alternative to instant salary access while helping employers improve employee engagement and retention at zero cost to their business. “The future of salary is on-demand, and we’re excited to be pioneering this amazing solution in Africa. I’m delighted to be collaborating with a group of highly respected investors who understand the need for a platform such as Earnipay to drive better access to salaries, and, importantly, to improve the financial well-being of income-earners in Africa.” The firm added that the round was led by Canaan and with participation from XYZ Ventures, Village Global, Musha Ventures, Ventures Platform, Voltron Capital and Paystack CEO Shola Akinlade. A partner at Canaan, Brendan Dickinson, said, “We’ve seen earned wage access grow rapidly in many markets and believe it’s a natural fit in Africa. “Earnipay has quickly established itself with a product built specifically for the payroll behaviours of this region, and early employer uptake is very strong. Nonso has built one of the strongest teams that we’ve met on the entire continent, and we’re thrilled for the opportunity to partner with them.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com