The management of the Petroleum Training Institute, Effurun, Delta State on Friday warned all students in the institution to shun examination malpractice, assaults, cultism, drug peddling, certificate forgery, indecent dressing and other social vices. Failure to adhere to the fundamental principles, norms and culture of the institute will attract stiff sanctions, the institution’s Principal/Chief Executive, Dr Henry Adimula said. He spoke at the Matriculation Ceremony for Full-Time and School of Industrial Continuing Education programmes for the 2021/2022 academic session held inside the Institute’s Conference Centre. A total of 1,267 out of 2,197 candidates that applied for admission to the National Diploma and Higher National Diploma programmes were offered admission, according to the Principal/Chief Executive. He disclosed that PTI has trained over 20,000 students who now occupy various facets of the oil, gas and allied industries sectors in Nigeria and across the globe in the last 50 years. Adimula, who was flanked by members of the council, urged the new students to maximise available resources which abound in the school to their advantage, disclosing that the management would integrate e-learning platforms with the actual modules to further mitigate Covid-19 realities. While admonishing the matriculants to be good ambassadors in and outside the institute, enjoined them to take a cue from alumni such as Dr Celestine Paddy Iyamu, Dr Excel Ukpohor and Comrade Festus Osifo, who graduated at various times, and are now very successful in their chosen careers. Breaking down the statistics of the matriculating students, he said for ND, out of 1,480 candidates who applied, 720 were offered admission, while for HND, out of 714 candidates that applied, only 547 got admitted. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com