The Hausa community under Zango-Urban Development Association  Zango-Kataf Local Government Area of Kaduna State on Friday tackled the Atyap community over claims on the renewed killings in Southern Kaduna. The Hausa community contended that the claim by the Atyap people that they were being massacred by Fulani militia was far from the truth. There have been claims and counter-claims over the killings in the Zango-Kataf communities in Southern Kaduna. The leadership of the Hausa accused the Atyap people of influencing the redeployment of troops from the Zango Urban so as to be able to unleash terror on the Hauas community in the Southern Kaduna. The Hausa association accused the Atyap people of being the aggressors while at the same time quick to turn around to label the Hausa and Fulani as the attackers. ZUDA, in a statement on Friday by its National President, Shehu Aminu, called on the Kaduna State government to implement the White Paper on the Rahila Cudjoe Cudjoe Reports of the 1992 Zangon Kataf Crises and the AVM Usman Mu’azu Reconciliation Committee Report. The association doing so would go a long way in resolving the lingering crises in Southern Kaduna. The statement added: “We also pray and call on the government to continue to support these security agencies with all it takes to bring these crises to an end. “We wish to reiterate that we are peace-loving people and are fully committed to any process that would bring lasting peace to our communities inasmuch as it is truthful, faithful and sincere. “We shall also continue to support and partake in any peaceful process to end these crises and also condemn violence and all its facets. “We want to call on the ACDA and the Atyap people to face the truth and  lie low to accept their mistakes, misgivings and earlier aggression which  culminated into these incessant attacks on their villages and settlements. “They should also back to the drawing board and seek out their differences and reconcile with their Fulani closest neighbours; these would ease the tension and bring about faithful reconciliation, resettlement and rehabilitation between them.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com