A Non-Governmental Organisation, IA-Foundation, has called on the Federal Government to create a task force that will ensure out-of-school children are taken back to schools. Speaking at a virtual press briefing of the foundation’s third virtual annual charity, the founder of IA-Foundation, Mrs Ibironke Adeagbo, maintained that if there were enforcement agents for traffic offenses, fraudulent acts, and others, she noted that there should be such for children roaming or hawking the streets during school hours. Adeagbo, a UK-based accountant said it was unacceptable that Nigeria had the highest number of out of school children in the world, saying the insecurity situation exacerbated the situation, especially in the north. “The legislation is there but no one is policing it.  If you go out there, you see children on the streets hawking or begging for alms. Who is challenging that child? Who is saying to that child he does not need to be here? “Government needs to have an apparatus, maybe call it a child police; that will go around picking up children from the streets and taking them to school. “We need the government to come up with more initiatives to make sure parents send their wards to school. “If we can have police for cars, why can we not have police for children?  The legislations are there. We just need some penalties for parents or guardians who do not send their wards to school.” Speaking on the forthcoming virtual charity event holding on Saturday, Adeagbo said the programme which was titled, “Impacting Lives”, would feature Dr Oby Ezekwesili; founder/Senior Pastor of Trinity House, Ituah Ighodalo; and American education child advocate, Zuriel Oduwole as speakers. She urged members of the society to support the event by attending, donating and purchasing raffle tickets whose winners would be announced during the event. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com