There was panic in Osun State on Monday when the convoy of the Interior Minister, Rauf Aregbesola, passed through the Old Garage area of Osogbo, the state capital. Some residents and passersby around Fagbewesa, Orisumbare, Oke Fia and MDS areas, who ran in different directions as heavy shooting rented the air, while speaking to our correspondent, could not however state what led to the shooting. But our correspondent learnt that Aregbesola’s convoy was coming from Station Road end of Osogbo and headed to Oke Fia area, around 6:40pm when the incident, which lasted about 10 minutes, happened. But the Chairman, World Institute for Peace, a non-governmental organisation, Lamina Kamildeen, who claimed to have witnessed the incident, in a Facebook post accused security men attached to Aregbesola of shooting sporadically while passing through Old Garage. Kamildeen, who claimed to be inside Orisumbare market, when the incident happened wrote, “Shooting sporadically by the security men who were in the company of the former Governor Aregbesola of the State of Osun in Osogbo today is but a misplacement of priority! No matter what, this is a state you have once governed for a two-term tenure. “Ogbeni needs to know that nothing is sweeter than peace in any given society. Mr Minister of Interior, you have to apologise to Osun people for many citizens were injured while running for their lives today. “I am not giving any judgement though, but the shooting was huge and caused a lot of panic.” Meanwhile, the Osun State Government and an aide to the Interior Minister, Bola Ilori, had traded blame over the incident. The government in a Public Service Announcement signed by the state Commissioner for Information and Civic Orientation, Funke Egbemode, had said some “misguided cowards have invaded Osogbo, the Osun State capital with armed thugs to foment trouble”. “These miscreants and their kingpin started shooting as they raced through the town. “Their interest is simply to attempt to thwart the peace of the state and create fear in the minds of the good people of Osun counting on a long-lost influence. “The Government of Osun hereby warns that there are no sacred cows in the state. No one is above the law here regardless of their past glories or future aspirations. Security agencies have been well briefed about the activities of these mischief-makers, who have set themselves on a collision course with the law.” But an aide to Aregbesola, Bola Ilori, in a Facebook post shortly after the incident, said miscreants working for the incumbent Governor, Adegboyega Oyetola, had attacked the former governor but were repelled by security details attached to him. The post read, “Only a lazy man starts a wrestling match with cutlass and guns – Aregbe!!! “Oyetola thugs fired several gunshots at Aregbesola’s, Adeoti (Sheu) convoy after declaring his preferred choice for Governorship. The attackers were repelled by combined efforts of Police, DSS, NSCDC etc and luckily no casually was recorded.” When contacted, the spokesperson of Osun Police Command, Yemisi Opalola, asked for time to get details of what transpired. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com