The Theater Arts and Motion Pictures Producers Association of Nigeria (TAMPPAN), Osun chapter, said it would organise a concert to honour the late John Adewunmi, popularly known as Tafa Oloyede. The concert, which would involve artistes’ performances, would take place on Thursday, in Osogbo, Osun state capital. The Governor of TAMPPAN, Osun chapter, Moruf Lawal, told the News Agency of Nigeria on Wednesday, that theatre art practitioners in Osun would converge at the residence of the late actor in Arowomole, Ita-Olokan, Osogbo. “The artistes will be performing to honour the late actor, who was a veteran and well-respected senior colleague in the Yoruba theatre art industry, both in Osun and Nigeria at large. “The artistes will be performing from 12.00 p.m, to 10.00 p.m in Osogbo, to honour the veteran actor,” he said. The National Assistant, General Secretary of TAMPAN, Ayo Oladapo, added that aside from the tribute-concert, another artistes’ night would be organised. He said, “We concluded today (Wednesday) that there should be a mini-artistes’ night too in Ede, the hometown of late Tafa Oloyede”. “The Ede-North and Ede-South TAMPPAN members are to organise the artistes’ night, starting from 7.00 p.m. till when it is convenient to stop, at the family house of late Oloyede. “The one we are organising at his residence in Osogbo is to let residents of Osogbo know that late Oloyede lived a good life while living among them. “It is also to create awareness about his art and craft, and to celebrate his life.” Oladapo, however, said by Friday, around 7.00 a.m and 8.00 a.m, the body of late Tafa Oloyede would be retrieved from the Osun State University Teaching Hospital, Osogbo, where it was earlier deposited. He added that it would be conveyed round Osogbo before finally moving it to Ede, his hometown, for burial. NAN reports that Oloyede, who had featured in several movies, including Akanji Oniposi, Jaiyesimi, Ayanmo, Orogun and Ekuro Oloja, among others, died on Tuesday, February 1, 2022, at his residence in Arowomole, Osogbo. The late veteran actor came into the limelight in the entertainment industry in 1974, under the tutelage of the late theatre icon, Oyin Adejobi.