THE prevalence and persistence of crude oil theft and pipeline vandalism in the Niger Delta, which has led to a serious revenue deficit for the Nigerian state, exposes the dysfunction and institutional weakness of the country. Fresh media reports aver that Nigeria lost billions of dollars to crude oil theft or about 10 per cent of its foreign reserves in 2021. This is worrisome. Instead of embarking on binge borrowing to finance government activities, crude theft ought to be eradicated with a combination of a creative strategy and effective law enforcement. Between January and September 2021, Nigeria lost about $4 billion (about N1.68 trillion) to crude oil theft in the Niger Delta alone, said Tony Elumelu, the Chairman of Heirs Oil and Gaswhile speaking at the Course 30 lecture at the National Defence College, Kaduna. This returns the oil theft and vandalism issue to the public discourse. Oil theft intertwines with many critical issues of public governance in Nigeria. For instance, Heirs, just like other oil companies, suffers major losses daily. It records more losses than it sells. “Theft in the Niger Delta is a national menace,” Elumelu said. “We (Heirs) will produce crude oil and the thieves will steal like 50,000 barrels per day. In my opinion, it is one of the most lethal threats to our country because there is so much money in the hands of people who don’t pay taxes and people you don’t regulate. The country is not safe.” Apart from revenue loss, this threatens the security of the country. The thieves deploy the resources to acquire sophisticated armouries and can face off with the state security agents to achieve their nefarious aims. On a wider scale, an earlier report had indicated that Nigeria lost almost 200 million barrels of crude in the first 11 months of the year, mainly due to theft. Nigeria lost 42.25 million barrels of crude in 2019, and 53.28 million barrels in the previous year to theft. The Nigerian Upstream Petroleum Regulatory Commission says the country loses more than 115,000 barrels per day to oil theft and vandalism. A 2019 report by the Nigeria Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative said that Nigeria lost about $42 billion to crude theft, as well as domestic and refined petroleum products losses from 2009 and 2018. The report gave the breakdown of the losses to include about $38.5 billion on crude theft, $1.6 billion on domestic crude, and another $1.8 billion on refined petroleum products. NEITI blamed the losses on the government for not embracing oil fingerprinting technology; the absence of comprehensive metering infrastructure of all oil facilities, and other creative strategies to combat the menace. Such negligence is scandalous. Evidence of the prevailing culture of poor governance and economic mismanagement is writ large across the country’s downstream oil sector too. Amid high unemployment at 33.3 percent, poverty, and insecurity, there are no all out measures to protect the country’s major export and revenue resource, or punish crime and adopt reforms to maximise benefits from the resource. Indeed, successive Nigerian governments have failed to muster the political will to adopt effective policies to plug leakages, end corruption and liberalise the crisis-ridden and state-dominated oil sector. The results are disastrous. Feeble remediation attempts by the government have been ineffective. In September 2021, the Federal Government set up an inter-ministerial committee to tackle the illegal refining of crude oil in the Niger Delta. The group comprised the oil and the security agencies, including the regulators and the military. Yet, the country experienced huge losses throughout the rest of the year despite the efforts of the committee. Environmental experts warn that oil theft is a threat to the safety and livelihoods of the environment and the communities where these illegal refineries operate. It therefore deserves holistic action. In Nigeria, crude oil theft thrives because of the collusion of security officials, the communities and political leaders with criminal elements working on their behalf. The government needs to wake up. Currently, most public projects are being funded with borrowed funds, igniting fears that the country might be heading for another debt trap. The Debt Management Office says Nigeria is saddled with a debt stock of N38 trillion as of September 2021, up by N5 trillion from the N33 trillion of December 2020. Oil theft in Nigeria is made easier by several factors. Weak infrastructure, such as old oil pipelines, undoubtedly enables thieves to gain access to the crude. In addition, general underinvestment across the sector and poor security of the country’s waterways hamper efforts to tackle the crime. A 2014 report by Canada-based Financial Post stated that Nigeria suffered the most from this activity. Mexico, in second place, saw only between 5,000 and 10,000 being stolen daily. In fifth place, Indonesia lost between 2,000 and 3,000 barrels daily. Therefore, the Federal Government must urgently acquire technologies that could monitor oil and gas pipelines across the country to recognise sabotage or human interference and prevent them before they are carried out. However, the perpetrators of these crimes must face stiff penalties. This requires strong political will on the part of the government. Security personnel, community and political leaders involved in this sleaze must be named, shamed, and prosecuted. Ultimately, the government should exit the downstream oil and gas sector. In a private sector-led environment, the cost of securing economic infrastructure will be largely shared among private investors/owners, where the investment exposure and profit motive would never condone the current industrial scale theft the Nigerian government so carelessly tolerates. Jobs, specialisation, foreign and domestic investment, innovation, and tax revenues will rise. The government would then focus on effective regulation with an emphasis on protecting the environment. The refusal to privatise the downstream assets is hurting the economy. The President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), should muster the courage to restart the privatisation programme and transparently sell the refineries, depots, and pipelines to reputable established operators.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com