The House of Representatives has urged the National Security Adviser, Maj.-Gen. Babagana Monguno (retd.); the Inspector-General Police, Usman Baba; Director-General, Department of State Services, Yusuf Bichi, as well as the Nigerian Army, Nigerian Navy and other security agencies to “form a joint taskforce to restore security in Anambra State, especially Anambra-South bordering Imo State.” While the House commended the security agencies for all their efforts towards curbing the incessant killings in the area, the lawmakers observed a one-minute silence in memory of “Chief Gab Ofoma, Mr Sule Matthew, our security men and women and other innocent citizens that have been brutally murdered through this senseless killings by criminals.” These resolutions were based on the unanimous adoption of the motion moved by a member, Chris Azubogu, titled ‘Urgent need to restore security in Anambra State which will arrest the killings of innocent citizens by criminals and non-state actors.’ Azubogu, while noting that the primary responsibility of the government is to protect lives and property, called on the government to restore full security in the state, especially Anambra-South Senatorial District which borders Imo State. According to the lawmaker, “non-state actors mostly criminals” have taken over parts of Anambra and have been killing innocent citizens and creating fear, so much that well-meaning citizens including traditional rulers have deserted their home towns. He also said some prominent traditional rulers in the state have deserted their kingdoms and resorted to residing in Awka, the state capital, or Abuja. Azubogu said, “The House is worried that about a week ago, gunmen operated in Aguata Local Government Area of Anambra State, killing at least four persons, one of their victims being an official of the Anambra State Traffic Management Agency (who was) controlling traffic at the ever-busy Ekwulobia roundabout. “They were also said to have killed two other persons at Oko, Igboukwu and yet another person close to Ekwulobia Girls Secondary School. They have also been operating within Nnewi, Ihiala, Nnobi, Ukpor axis.” He added, “The House is further worried about the most recent killing of Chief Gab Ofoma, a senior estate surveyor and valuer, a foremost industrialist and Chairman/CEO of Ofoma Associates Ltd on Sunday, the 20th of February, by these criminals along Mbosi/Ihiala/Iseke road; and the killing of Mr Sule Matthew, a First Class graduate of Bayero University Kano, and other occupants of the vehicle conveying them to Anambra State for his national youth service. “An attempt was also made on the life of Chief Fabian Nworah of Efab Properties by these blood-thirsty criminals when he visited Anambra State, and many others too numerous to mention.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com