Kwara State Governor, Abdulrahman Abdulrazaq, and the President of the Pharmaceutical Society of Nigeria, Prof. Cyril Usifoh, have urged pharmacists in the state not to relent in their efforts towards the provision of quality, accessible and affordable health care to the people. They spoke during the courtesy visit of Usifo to Kwara State Governor, according to a statement on Monday. The governor who was represented by his deputy, Mr Kayode Alabi, said his administration had continued to provide an enabling environment for pharmaceutical activities to thrive. “My office is always open to pharmacists whenever they feel like coming around to discuss how to better improve the health care delivery in the state,” he said. Responding, the PSN President said he had no regret visiting the state as his first assignment after his inauguration. “I must commend you for having the love of the pharmacy profession at heart and for creating an enabling environment for our people to operate. I must also commend the leadership of Kwara PSN, for the unity and peaceful co-existence the practitioners in the state are enjoying. I have observed that the practitioners here are united in pursuit of a common goal. “As much as the state government is doing its best in the area of health care delivery, the PSN as the umbrella body of all pharmacists in the country will want you to address the issue of medicine security, drug faking and counterfeiting, hawking of drugs, inadequate electricity, high cost of living, as well as other professional challenges facing our people for the good of Nigerians, while we assure you of our willingness to work with your government, give expert advice when needed and contribute our quota to the development of health care in the state,” Usifoh added. The chairman, PSN Kwara State, Adejuwon Otelaja, appreciated the proactive steps of the governor at solving every challenge facing the practitioners in the state. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com