The Nigerian Bar Association, Warri and Benin branches have raised security concerns as kidnappers abduct three of their members, alongside a driver, on their way to the court. PUNCH Metro gathered that the trio of Fred Aburu, Esq., Isreal Unurierume, Esq., Eda Gbejule, Esq., and Kome Esike, the driver of their vehicle, all from Warri, were kidnapped on Wednesday, along Benin -Auchi road, in Edo State. The Chairman, NBA Warri Branch, Chief Emmanuel Uti, in a statement made available to journalists lamented that the development “is disturbing”. “The incident awakens the sad reality of what has bedeviled our society, which the Government has found difficult to contain, in order to reassure its citizens of their safety,” the NBA chairman said. He added that this act of kidnapping has called “for a revisit of the Branch resolution that, our Branch members should not appear for any accused charged with kidnapping”. Also, the NBA, Benin Branch, in a similar statement issued by its Publicity Secretary, Ogaga Emoghwanre, expressed concern that the kidnapping of lawyers along the Benin/Auchi Road “has become a recurring decimal”. The statement read, “The Branch ‘is alarmed over the incessant and unending kidnap of lawyers and citizens plying Benin/Auchi Road by dare-devil kidnappers and has for the umpteenth time made vociferous calls on the security operatives in the state to put an end to the ugly trend. “In what has become a recurring decimal, the kidnappers struck again in the early hours of today, 2/2/2022 shooting sporadically. While at it, they kidnapped three lawyers and their driver to wit: Mr. Fred Aburu, Mr. Israel Unurierume, Mr. Eda Gbejule and Mr. Kome Esike, the driver. “It was revealed that the affected lawyers who are members of the Warri branch of the NBA, (“The Radioactive Bar”) were on their way from Warri to Sabo-gidda Ora High Court when they were attacked at the Ehor axis of the expressway. “The question now is: If lawyers who spend most of their lives fighting for the oppressed can be kidnapped, does it not automatically mean that no one in this country is safe? “The bitter truth is that the rising incidence of kidnapping in Edo State is mind-boggling and the NBA Benin Branch cannot, and will not sit back and allow this to linger within our turf. “We want to at this juncture, while commending the Police and other security agencies in Edo State, demand that they do everything within their constitutional powers and duty to ensure that the lawyers and driver are released within 48 hours, unharmed and unscathed. “We state categorically that we are in unshaken solidarity with the Radioactive Bar in this trying time in demanding for the unconditional and immediate release of our colleagues. “The Chairman of the Lion Bar, Mr. Pius Oiwoh, was on his way to Ekpoma High court when the kidnappers attacked motorists plying that road. Fortunately, he was unharmed and we thank God for sparing him.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com