The Tony Elumelu Foundation has said it is committed to advancing the progress of the private sector in Nigeria and Africa. It also expressed its readiness to support the European Commission’s vision to invest funds that will help to boost development in the African continent. This was disclosed when the foundation hosted a delegation of the European Commission, the executive arm of the European Union in Lagos. The EU delegation was on a tour across Africa to engage critical stakeholders on the modalities of channelling €150bn investment the union earmarked for the continent in the next seven years. During the event, the European Commission also expressed its commitment to invest in initiatives that would drive Nigeria’s digital transformation. The Chief Executive Officer, Tony Elumelu Foundation, Ifeyinwa Ugochukwu, said, “The TEF will continue to inspire young people to explore their talents to drive economic development across Africa.” At the event, the EU delegation disclosed that under its EU-Nigeria digital economy package (2021-2024), it planned to invest at least €820m in Nigeria’s digital transformation. This would include digital infrastructure investment, digitalisation of public services, building digital entrepreneurship and skills. The EU said it would support the development of regulatory frameworks with the highest standard of privacy, safety and cyber security, while promoting an open Internet and digital market that upholds citizens’ rights. It said it would engage in policy dialogue and set up a dedicated €2m technical assistance facility to share expertise and build up administrative capacity. The EU said through a €9.5m grant to Nigeria’s innovation programme, it would promote innovation-friendly ecosystems and new digital solutions. It said as part of the €44m grant to the Nigeria Jubilee Fellowship programme, it would support on-the-job training for young Nigerians in the ICT sector.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com