The chairman of the African Cancer Centre, Mr Adekunle Olumide, has reiterated the organisation’s mission to increase access to cancer treatment, prevention through early detection and diagnosis. Olumide said this on Thursday during the signature ceremony appointing financial advisers for the centre. He said, “Nigerians are aware of the parlous state of cancer management in Nigeria. It was estimated in 2015 that one in every three Nigerians will develop cancer before they die at age 80 or more, suggesting that about 60 million Nigerians will die from the deadly disease. The figures in 2022 will be more depressing. “It was against the background of the poor cancer management in Nigeria that the Founder and Director of the African Cancer Center, the late Prof. Olufemi Williams, conceived and spearheaded the establishment of the Center. ACC is envisioned to be a world-class 350-bed center for cancer treatment, research and training that will serve Nigeria, the West African sub-region and beyond. “The mission of the Centre will be accomplished by improving access to treatment, prevention through early detection and diagnosis, and quality care through training, cancer education, greater public awareness and enlightenment. There are a number of cancer hospitals and treatment units springing up across the continent, but let me assure you that this will be a one-stop centre for cancer treatment in Nigeria and sub-Saharan Africa.” A professor of radiation therapy and oncology, Francis Durosinmi-Etti, at the event, said peoples’ lifestyle was contributing to the increase in cancer cases. He said, “Basically the increase in cancer cases is because people are more aware unlike in the past when people think cancer is an attack. These days, people are coming out, even people who have been cured are happy to come out and declare that cancer is no longer a death sentence. “The publicity on cancer is making people come out for early diagnosis and treatment. Also, the population seems to be ageing, unlike in the past. Of course, you intend to get more cancer in elderly people. That does not mean children cannot have cancer. Some of these cancers run in families. “Also, our lifestyle is also contributing to the increase in cancer cases. We are all westernised now, we eat all sorts of junk foods, and all these results in one cancer or the other. However, the likelihood of surviving cancer now has improved compared to the past. Early diagnosis and treatment, improved radiotherapy services and the rest.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com