The Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority has begun the recertification of the Lagos and Abuja airports, the Director-General of the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority, Captain Nuhu Musa, has said. As a result, he said inspectors of the regulatory agencies had begun a series of regular meetings with the official of the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria with a view to ensuring that open items discovered are closed. Musa disclosed that technical inspections of the airports were done last year to ascertain some identified gaps and that action plans were expected to be developed. According to him, the NCAA is expected to carry out a review as soon as a report of the technical inspections is submitted. He spoke during an interview in Lagos. The NCAA boss said, “For the certifications and re-certifications, technical inspections took place at the end of last year to confirm the gaps there (in the airports), and action plans are being developed. Once a report has been submitted to the NCAA, we will review that. For those that are okay, we will go ahead with it (recertify); and for those that are not okay, we’ll return the report with comments on what needs to be done. “The re-certification of Lagos and Abuja is ongoing. FAAN is working on it. Every two weeks, we do have meetings, high-level meetings. We meet with FAAN and try to resolve the issues so that we can hopefully get all the certifications for the audit.” On aircraft that have been abandoned by their owners at various airports across the country, Musa decried the situation, explaining that legal disputes had stopped the regulatory agency and FAAN from evacuating them. The National Assembly had ordered the NCAA and FAAN to remove abandoned aircraft from airports.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com