If there is another question that I am asked a lot, it is about ‘sickle cell and screening.’ Some people want to find out if their baby has sickle cell disease while others do not.  However, finding out will mean you making a decision from a place of informed choice.  Let me help you understand it better. Genes work in pairs. You get one gene from your mother and one from your father. People who are carriers have inherited one unusual gene for haemoglobin from one parent. Because they have also inherited one usual gene for haemoglobin from the other parent, they will never have a haemoglobin disorder themselves. But, if a carrier has a baby with another person who is also a carrier, their baby has a 1 in 4 (25 per cent) chance of having a haemoglobin disorder such as sickle cell disease or thalassaemia major. If you are both carriers, what are the risks to your baby? There are three possibilities. Being a sickle cell carrier means you carry one of the genes that causes SCD, but you do not have the condition itself.  This is also known as having the sickle cell trait.  People who carry sickle cell trait will not develop full-blown sickle cell disease but may be at risk of having a child with sickle cell disease.  Sickle cell carriers can experience some problems in situations where their bodies might not get enough oxygen, such as having a general anesthetic.  If you are a carrier of the sickle cell gene, you can pass these health conditions on to your baby. All pregnant women can now have a blood test done to find out if they carry a gene.  If a mother is found to be a carrier, a test can be sought to test for sickle cell.  If the mother is found to be a carrier, screening is also offered to the father.  This helps to know if your baby will be affected. This test should ideally be done while the mother is within her first semester of pregnancy as it is important the test is done early.   By having the test early, you and your partner can find out about all your options and make an informed decision if your baby is at risk of inheriting a blood disorder. The importance of a screening is it will help the mother/father find out if you’re a carrier of a gene for sickle cell and if therefore you are likely to pass it on to your baby. Genes are the codes in our bodies for things such as eye colour and blood group.  Genes work in pairs: for everything we inherit, we get one gene from our mother and one gene from our father. People only have sickle cell disease if they inherit two unusual hemoglobin genes: one from their mother and one from their father. The test offered is called prenatal diagnosis. It will show whether your baby has inherited any genes for unusual haemoglobin.  The screening test cannot harm you or your baby, but it’s important to think carefully about whether or not to have this test. The test can provide information that may mean you have to make further important decisions. The test will tell you if you’re a carrier or not, or whether you have the disease yourself. You’ll get the result of the blood test within a week or less. If you’re found to be a carrier of sickle cell, you could go to a specialist nurse or midwife counsellor for genetic counselling. If tests show your baby’s father is also a carrier, there’s a 1 in 4 chance that your baby can have the disease.   You’ll be offered further tests called diagnostic tests to find out if your baby is affected.  A diagnostic test will tell you: if your baby has sickle cell disease, if your baby is a carrier and if your baby is completely unaffected, as mentioned above. There are two types of diagnostic test: Chorionic villus sampling (CVS) – This is usually performed from 11 to 14 weeks of pregnancy.  A fine needle, usually put through the mother’s tummy, is used to take a tiny sample of tissue from the placenta.   The cells from the tissue can be tested for sickle cell. Amniocentesis: This is done from 15 weeks of pregnancy. A fine needle is passed through the mother’s tummy into the uterus to collect a small sample of the fluid surrounding the baby.  The fluid contains some of the baby’s cells, which can be tested for sickle cell. If the result shows your baby has sickle cell disease, you’ll be offered an appointment with a health professional.  You’ll be able to get information about the particular blood disorder the baby has inherited and talk through your choices.  Some blood disorders are more serious than others. If you would like to get in touch with me about this article or about sickle cell, do so, via email: t.dehinde@yahoo.com and do visit my blog: www.howtolivewithsicklecell.co.uk.   The e-copy of my book on Sickle Cell – How To Live With Sickle Cell is available for purchase on www.toladehinde.com and if you want to purchase a paperback version, it is available on Amazon.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com