Senate President, Dr Ahmed Lawan, has rated Kwara State Governor, AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq, high on performance and project deliveries, saying his administration’s achievements have surpassed that of his predecessors, Bukola Saraki, and Abdulfatah Ahmed, combined 16 years in two years. Saraki, who is also Lawan’s predecessor as Senate President was Kwara’s governor from 2003 to 2011, while Ahmed took over from him in 2011 to 2019 before the ‘Otoge’ movement that ushered in the incumbent governor on the platform of All Progressives Congress. Lawan spoke on Saturday in Kwara at the mega constituency empowerment programme organised by Senator Umar Sadiq representing Kwara North in the National Assembly, according to a statement titled, ‘We prioritise self-reliance, expanding mass prosperity over handouts: Kwara Gov’ and signed by AbdulRazaq’s spokesman, Rafiu Ajakaye. While urging Kwara residents to support AbdulRazaq in consolidating on his remarkable achievements in the last two years, the Senate president said the governor’s administration has delivered on key components of governance in a style not seen before over the past decade in the state. He acknowledged the humility and maturity of the Governor in handling of state matters, commending his leadership of the state and its people. He said, “I call on the people of Kwara State, no one should deceive or confuse you. I urge you to re-elect His Excellency Governor AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq for second term. He is already performing so well within just over two years. “When those people talk to you again tell them they were here for 16 years and you couldn’t see so much in terms of things that benefit the ordinary person. What our colleagues in the National Assembly are doing is to complement your efforts in Kwara state. “Your Excellency the APC administration in Kwara State is barely two and half years. We know how far we have gone in just two and half years.” The senate president particularly praised AbdulRazaq for working closely with the three senators from Kwara to perform their legislative functions with comfort and bring dividends of democracy to the people of the state. “All the three senators from Kwara State have been working with us in the senate. You have sent a great team to the senate. What we are witnessing today is giving account of stewardship in the last two years. Your Excellency, Senator Sadiq Umar is the chairman of our committee on Rules and Business. “For him as a first-timer to be the chairman of Rules and Business is because he has exhibited commitment, hard work and team work. The chairman of Rules and Business is the gate between every senator and his bills. So, it’s a huge responsibility. It shows the quality of senators from Kwara state. “Your Excellency, they wouldn’t have been able to do what they are today without you. You have given them the kind of support they need as members of National Assembly. I thank you for working with our distinguished senators, for supporting them to shine in the Senate of the Federal Republic of Nigeria.” On his part, AbdulRazaq said his administration is prioritising policies, projects, and programmes designed to make citizens self-reliant and more prosperous. “Our policies, projects, and programmes are designed to make our people self-reliant. In our opinion, that is the surest path to breaking the cycle of poverty and making our people more prosperous. “This involves gradually moving many of our people from the age-long culture of dependency to sustainable practice of self-reliance through skills acquisition, support for small businesses, empowerment, and inclusion.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com