The Senate has approved more law schools across the country. Ebun-Olu Adegboruwa, SAN, in this interview with SOLOMON ODENIYI speaks on what he thinks of such proposal The Senate is seeking to create seven more law schools across the country. What do you think of this idea? No nation that wants to move forward should centralise education or learning. For instance , the Joint Admissions and  Matriculation Board  should be decentralized. We shouldn’t centralize education. That is why you see frustration where the young people every year are writing the Unified Matriculation Examination and failing. I was a victim myself where I had to be writing UTME.  I think that it is not even the matter of the Federal Government establishing more law schools. There are states that have the capacity and the funds. They should be empowered because the All Progressives Congress during its campaign promised the devolution of power and it’s to ensure that people are not held down by factors of backwardness. I think the Governor of River State is building a law school and the state that can’t do it will catch up eventually. I don’t think the Federal Government should be involved in training lawyers. It should do what it stands for and concentrate on national development issues . If you look at what is going on currently, there are schools that have students who have to wait for  years to go to Law school because the law schools available cannot absorb the quotas being produced by universities. As a result of this,  universities are being limited from admitting law students because there is no law school to train them and is like this  in medical school, is like that in pharmacy and many other professions. We shouldn’t hold ourselves down as a nation. The Senate also approved a law school in Borno State which has been battling insecurity for the last 12 years. Is this a safe option? It depends on the location because I know that in Borno State, universities are being renovated, estates are being built. I think we shouldn’t  because of insecurity stop advancement of learning. If there’s enough security in those places, it is okay. The problem is you don’t force people to go there. It should be voluntary. You don’t do it like they are doing in the NYSC (National Youth Service Corps) and then you post people to battle field and you can’t offer protection for them. For me, it depends on the location the law school would be established. The Director General of the law school says the current six law schools are enough, adding that the facilities of these campuses can be upgraded to increase its capacity to take in more students. Do you agree with this argument? I don’t agree with him because I have been to those schools and all the facilities are congested, overcrowded. I believe that we will get to a situation whereby each state of the federation will eventually have its own law school. So what the Federal Government should do is to ensure that there is no compromise in the quality of what is being taught.  In places like the United State of America, every state has it own law school even if you qualified in Lagos State as a lawyer, you still have to go and write exam in Borno State to qualify to practice there. Since, there is no uniformity of law in Nigeria, we shouldn’t centralise legal training. The law schools available now are not sufficient .  I do not subscribe to the situation of our children, our youth , our teenagers who have wait in line because there are no facilities to absorb them. I don’t agree with the director general with all due respect. Critics say the National Assembly has a penchant for creating more institutions for political reasons, which usually ignore the country’s ability to fund education. What do you think of this? From what we have seen now, given the successes recorded by the private institutions, especially the private universities, it has shown that the government is not investing enough in public education. We do not have enough public universities and the  average Nigerian cannot afford the fee being charged by the private universities. So, there must be alternatives for the masses as many public universities should  be  established. Establishing more universities is like subsidising education.  Many  of such universities can be established. Eventually the government would be forced to fund them. For me accessibility to the masses is my concern. What do you think of the argument that Nigeria needs more law schools to address the issue of the backlog of students from the law faculties waiting for admission into law schools? It is scandalous . As I’m speaking to you, there are students who have graduated from law faculties in various universities and they are five years on the road waiting to be admitted to go to law school and until you go to law school, you cannot practise as a lawyer. So those people  and their careers and destinies  have been tied down.  The fund required is a fraction of the security votes that the governors are pocketing. So if there is any way that you can use infrastructure to get our money out of our leaders, I support it. If you want to build schools, hospitals and roads all over the country, I will support it because if you do more of these projects and infrastructure then there will be less funds for people to embezzle. If we don’t do these things, the fund will be pocketed by our leaders .  I absolutely support that every state of the federation should eventually have a law school. The DG of law school says there have never been issues of backlog. Is this true? I did not agree with the DG.  Unfortunately, the reality is that there is a backlog. I know for a fact that there are people who have waited  four to five years after graduating  from the faculties of law in various universities but they are waiting to go to law school. This is also affecting the law faculties themselves because the level of education itself gives quota of the number of the students to be admitted by each faculty every year. There are schools that shouldn’t admit more than 100.  They should not admit one more than 150 and there are over 1,000 processing the admission into the institution, so the competition is too much. It is frustrating our young people. I don’t agree with the director-general because the reality in Nigeria today is that there is a backlog and it cannot be cured by upgrading the existing institution.  They don’t have the capacity. There are no classrooms, there are no hostels, there are no facilities. In most cases, those schools were built  years ago.  I believe we should get to a stage where virtually every state of the federation should have its own law School. When you look at the number of lawyers we have in Nigeria, we should not be making this kind of argument at all. Are you saying the number is inadequate? We have less than 200,000 lawyers.  That’s the reality. These include the Senior Advocates of Nigeria, those in the inner bar, judges and lawyers. The totality of the population is still less than 200,000 lawyers. This is in a country of 200 million people. W shouldn’t be making this kind of argument and that is why you see a lot of people being cheated, their rights are being violated because we don’t have enough people who can really attend to their issues in terms of advocacy or representation. Won’t it lead to unnecessary competition if we have many lawyers in the country? Yes, the competition is good.  It will lead to expertise. But in a situation whereby one million people are chasing one lawyer, it will just create monopoly and create some kind of sense of entitlement . We should have many more lawyers, doctors, engineers, journalists or accountants in the country . We shouldn’t limit education in any way. A situation,  whereby our students are writing the UTME exam  five to six  times shouldn’t exist at all. The sponsor of the Senate bill said N31bn would be enough to build all seven law schools. Is this realistic? I even think that amount is grossly inadequate. If you spend over 100 million dollars to build the law School, it is worth it. The State House in the budget of this year is going to take close to N10 billion to renovate a clinic where there is no single vaccine or injection. The more  infrastructure we do, the more you take away the chances of corruption and embezzlement. It’s always better to build more roads, let’s have more hospitals, more universities, more law schools so that we put more pressure on our leaders to spend money on the things that will benefit the people rather than allowing them to pocket the money by way of security votes. So for me,  the more infrastructure the better for the masses and Nigeria. They are not willing to give the money to Nigerians, they are not willing to create employment, so let us build social infrastructure such as build roads, schools. among others. Do you agree with the argument that the establishment of more law schools would address the 30 per cent failure rate at the Bar Final Examinations? No, I don’t think so. We went through the worst circumstances in the universities. We sat in the sun to take lectures. It’s just an individual character about commitment. The younger people nowadays unfortunately, I’m sorry to say , do not show enough diligence and commitment required of them.  The conditions can be better though. But I think even if you put somebody in an air-conditioned room and he is not passionate or interested, he will still fail the exam. The truth is that those of us who have passed through this system have had the worst experience, but  if you are committed, if you have the zeal you will still excel. I’m not saying that to justify the rot as we see in most universities and even in law school now. The issue of overcrowding has nothing to do with the performance of individuals. Are you saying if we have more law schools it won’t address the failure? No . What I’m saying is that my own concern is addressing the issue of backlog which has been denying people of the opportunity of spaces into law school.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com