THE Christian Association of Nigeria in Taraba State on Thursday said it would again determine who becomes the next governor of the state through its members’ majority votes. The association, which decried the recent press briefing by the Muslim Council of Taraba State and Muslim Rights Concern alleging marginalisation amid claims of being the majority in the state, explained that the Muslims remained a minority in Taraba and cannot win elections with their numbers. Addressing a press conference in Jalingo, the state chairman of CAN, Rev. Isaiah Magaji, said the allegations by the Taraba State Muslim Council and MURIC were baseless and politically-motivated with intent to intimidate the Christian majority in the state. Magaji said, “We are a peace-loving religious group and will not want to join issues with our Muslim brothers but this cheap propaganda against the governor must stop in the overall interest of peace and progress. “If Governor Ishaku was adjudged a good leader who has performed creditably by a Muslim monarch, the Emir of Muri, Alhaji Abbas Njida Tafida recently in Takum, why is the Muslim Council and MURIC speaking differently? “We have the number and where the Christians vote that is where the winner will emerge in Taraba. We could have chosen to replicate what President Muhammadu Buhari is doing at the federal level and (Gov) El-Rufai in Kaduna, but we have being accommodating our Muslim brothers and our simplicity should not be taken for cowardice.” “There is growing persecution of Christians in predominantly Christian states in northern Nigeria and MURIC has been silent over such acts against Christians in states like Kaduna, Niger, Adamawa, Gombo, Nasarawa, Borno, Yobe and others. “This fallacy being perpetrated by mischief-makers who are bent on destabilising the peace of the society for their selfish aggrandisement must stop.” CAN said appointments made by the governor were based on merit and due process, adding that Muslims were occupying sensitive positions in the administration of Governor Ishaku. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com