Vice-President Yemi Osinbajo (SAN) says the people Niger Delta deserve considerable developmental gains. He also said one of the key objectives of the administration of his principal, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd), is ensuring inclusive prosperity. Osinbajo explained that the Federal Government is collaborating with state governments and increasing efforts towards ensuring the wholesome development of communities in the Niger Delta region, and across the country. The VP stated this on Saturday in Bayelsa State at the construction flag-off of the Angiama-Oporoma Bridge, on the Yenagoa-Oporoma-Ukube road. During his visit to the state, where he was received at the airport by the State Governor, Douye Diri, the VP also paid a courtesy call on the Traditional Rulers Council in the State, ahead of the flag-off and the drive-through on the Yenagoa-Oporoma-Ukubie road. Osinbajo said, “The rapid urbanisation of the last two decades, the consequent pressure on cities, and the difficulties of allocating scarce resources, faced by governments at all levels, and across the country.” This was contained in a statement on Sunday by his spokesman, Laolu Akande. Highlighting the importance of such infrastructure projects to a nation’s development, the VP said, “We must always find the commitment, innovation, and persistence to put in place the quality and scale of infrastructure needed, to give our people the productive and competitive edge to better their lives, and we need to do it as fast as possible.” According to the VP, Niger Delta communities such as Oporoma, Angiama – where the Bridge is now being constructed, and others across the region, are home to vast amounts of mineral wealth and natural resources, so they deserve to have considerable developmental gains to show for it. The VP noted that the Angiama-Oporoma Bridge construction is a symbol for development in the region, and will have a far-reaching impact on the lives of the people in the communities. “By facilitating easier access to places like Yenogoa and beyond with this bridge, we will be laying a foundation for development that will deepen commerce and create individual and collective opportunities for the people of these communities,” he stated. “As a matter of urgency, we are well on our way towards correcting historical lapses in this respect, through the collaborative efforts of the federal, state, and local governments, each one putting aside personal interests, and doing the best they can for the communities which have undeservedly suffered for so long,” he emphasised. The VP also assured the people of the “Federal Government’s full support and collaboration in every way possible.” “You have not been forgotten, and this milestone is only the beginning of greater things to come,” he said. He said under the Buhari administration’s New Vision initiative, the region has witnessed significant development strides and projects, such as the ongoing Ogoni cleanup in Rivers State; the take-off of the Nigeria Maritime University; establishment of modular refineries across states in the region; infrastructure projects, including the 34-km Bonny-Bodo Road and Bridge project, the Warri-Itakpe railway line, among others.