Russia has been busy amassing troops along its border with Ukraine for the past month. Over 100 thousand uniformed personnel are thought to have lined up to the eastern border region of Rostov, and thousands more in plain clothes are believed to be already deep inside Ukraine, lying low, ready for their call up. The fear of an invasion by Russia is very real. If, like many people in this part of the world, your first impression of the Russian military escapade is to dismiss it as only a skirmish between two cousins, in such far-away lands that are of no import to Africa, then, you would be seriously wrong. The lightning rod for the first and second World Wars was invasion; invasion by one (powerful country) of another (less powerful) one. First, it is 1914 and an irate Serbian nationalist shoots and kills the heir to the throne of the Austro-Hungarian Empire, Archduke Franz Ferdinand, in broad daylight, in the streets of Sarajevo. In retaliation, the Austrian army invades Serbia. This leads to a cascade of events where country after country begins to take sides, declaring ‘solidarity wars’ on each other. And, before long, it spread across Europe, Africa, Asia, the Middle-East, the Pacific Ocean, Pacific Islands and the rest, they say, is history. Soon enough, it has claimed more than two million African lives in battle. Second, it is 1939, Nazi Germany invades Poland in a brazen attempt at annexation. Within three days, Britain and France responded by declaring war on Germany. World War II begins, again, resulting in millions of casualties of African soldiers. Still, think Russia and Ukraine are inconsequential in faraway lands? Only the most innocent of minds would look away from the unfolding events in Ukraine. One of the most powerful nations on earth, militarily, would not be massing troops along the border of its erstwhile neighbour just for the fun of it. Backed by tanks, artillery and airpower, Russia has troops positioned in Donetsk, Kharkiv, Luhansk, and, of course, Crimea; a Ukrainian territory earlier invaded and annexed by Russia in 2014. It has also commenced joint military exercises with neighbouring Belarus and Moldova. Russian President, Vladimir Putin, recently announced the deployment of advanced Su-35 fighter planes along with air defence systems into Belarus. Moldova is less than 100 miles from the Ukrainian capital, Kyiv.  Russia would either make good on its threat or face a humiliating retreat. A fascinating but rather dangerous brinkmanship at that.  Of course, the geopolitical layout of the world during the two World Wars no longer holds. For starters, colonial territories, especially in Africa, no longer exist. No recourse to call ups on the African from the European generals. Consequently, even if war were to break out between Russia and Ukraine tomorrow, Western powers would not put boots on the ground to fight alongside the Ukrainian soldiers. One-third of Europe’s gas supply comes from Russia. Plus, there is strategic but no vital national interest at stake for them.  But that is only as good as it gets. Significant disruption to international commerce, which an open conflict would trigger, would have a disproportionate impact on the struggling, inflation-ridden, African economies. So, while a million African soldiers may not die in battle this time around, even millions more may die of hunger and starvation on our shores over a sustained period of time. So, let us explore this in a wider context. Ukraine used to be one of the 15 ‘autonomous republics’ in the defunct Union of Soviet Socialist Republics (or USSR as it was known). They were an amalgam of territories brought together under communist rule following the Russian revolution of 1917. The communist party held them together with an iron fist, on the road to a Socialist Nirvana. The USSR and its Marxist-Leninist ideology tried to engineer a new type of humanity; one that is guided by compassion and the collective good, rather than the greed and individualism fostered by capitalism. The experiment lasted for seventy-five gruesome years but collapsed and disintegrated in a spectacular fashion in 1990/91.  Before then, the Western alliance had come together under the umbrella of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation in 1949 to counter the advance of communism from the East to the West. It is a military organisation, originally spearheaded by the US, UK, Canada, and France. Its abiding doctrine is “attack on one is an attack on all.”  The USSR responded by forming its own military alliance, the “Warsaw Pact,” in 1955. Following the collapse of the USSR, however, many of its former members— Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Poland, the Czech Republic, Hungary, Romania, Croatia, Bulgaria etc—all flocked towards NATO. The organisation now has 30 members and has left its door open to more. Ukraine has been trying to come on board to no avail. It is a country closely tied to Russia in terms of history and culture. There is a large chunk of ethnic Russians in Ukraine. Russia sees it as its own backyard but the current Ukrainian political leadership wants to move much closer and faster to the West. Ukraine is of strategic value to NATO and the Western alliance because its long-term, ultimate objective is the triumph of liberal democratic values (Fukuyama’s “the end of history”) right across Eastern Europe, extending to Russia itself. Ukraine is, therefore, well placed to be hoisted as a shiny example of Western liberal democracy, free enterprise capitalist culture, aided, abetted and fortified by NATO. Russia, quite understandably, is having none of that. The country still sees itself as a ‘super power’ of some sort. Putin has said that the collapse of the USSR was the strategic blunder of his generation; Russia’s “Al-Nakba,” a catastrophe. He wants to repair some of the damage if he could. China too, with a similar sovereignty issue with Taiwan, does not want to see the fait accompli of Western domination of Europe, which would deepen its own sense of isolation from the global community. So, by necessity, it aligns itself with Putin and would use its veto at the UN Security Council to prevent any condemnation of Russia. A diplomatic route as a relief for both sides is rendered complicated by the fact that Ukraine, a sovereign nation, is not quite viewed as such by Russia. One of the longest serving Soviet leaders and General Secretary of the Communist Party (1964-1982), Leonid IIyich Brezhnev, was himself a Ukrainian. It’s a tie that runs deep. Any understanding of Russia’s perception of threat along its borders must be balanced with the cold reality of Ukraine’s right to exist as an independent sovereign state, able to determine its own future.  Ukraine was persuaded, one would say pressured, to give up its massive nuclear arsenal when it broke free from the USSR in 1991. The West did not wish to have another nuclear power to contend with, neither did Russia nor China, but that has now left the country vulnerable to frivolous attacks from Russia. Putin, a former colonel in his country’s secret service, the “KGB,” is an old-fashioned Clausewitz realist. He understands the language and prerogative of war more than is generally understood by pundits. Projection of force is crucial to maintain his stranglehold on power at home. It is also an important element for re-asserting Russia’s influence on the world stage. This is how it will be with Russia for as long as Putin remains in power. The West will pursue the strategy of deterrence and containment as they must. It is the best alternative to a full-scale military confrontation. The rest of the world will brace for the predictable ‘massive’ economic fallout. drtayooke@gmail.com Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com