The Peoples Democratic Party joint Minority Caucus of the National Assembly has endorsed the presidential bid of former President of the Senate, Anyim Anyim. The endorsement came during a meeting on Tuesday night at Transcorp Hilton in Abuja, where Anyim informed the caucus of his intention to run for the country’s highest office. Anyim told the lawmakers that he needed their approval as he would not proceed without the support of his primary constituency. He said, “I said I needed to report myself to my primary constituency. If you are hearing about this journey, without this formal consultation, I will have the guilt to even talk to you individually. And I said, let’s have this formal outing. Then I’ll also take time to reach all of you individually. “And the whole idea of this formal outing is for people to know that we believe in the PDP. We are proud of the PDP. We are committed to the PDP. And our future is tied to the PDP. So, some time back and I’m sure a number of you would have read, I looked at our political environment, I looked at the present climate and I weighed back and forth. And I thought I should seek on your behalf the office of the President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. “I cannot do it on my own. I cannot do it alone. But if the people that I will do it with a look back and forth and say, ‘don’t go’, I will stop where you ask me to stop. But if tonight, you ask me to go ahead, be sure I will lead the fight. And whatever be the obstacle on the way, when I remember that you are with me, I will be bold enough to confront it.” Senate Minority Leader,  Eyinnaya Abaribe, who responded on behalf of the joint caucus, approved Anyim’s candidacy, assuring him of their support. According to him, former lawmakers eventually make better executives He said, “There is something that happens everywhere in the world. When members of the National Assembly get to the executive position, they do much better than anybody else because they understand how to manage the other side. We know that being one of our own, how can we tell you not to continue on that journey? It is going to be very difficult for us to do that. “So, on behalf of the joint caucus of the National Assembly, we’re saying to you, do not relent, go ahead and continue to charge and go forward to become the President of Nigeria.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com