Manchester United attacker Anthony Elanga has been reacting to scoring a massive equaliser in our 1-1 draw away to Atletico Madrid in the Champions League. The 19-year-old came on as a substitute to score an 80th-minute leveller against the Spaniards in the first leg of our last-16 tie. Latching onto a deadly through ball from Bruno Fernandes, Elanga tucked the ball past Jan Oblak with a composed finish. “I think that was my first touch as well,” he told BT Sport. “I’ve dreamt of moments like this, scoring in the Champions League. Obviously in a big occasion like this, against a top European team like Atletico Madrid – like I say it’s a dream come true. “But it’s only the first half [of the tie]. That’s gone now and the second half is at Old Trafford in a couple of weeks. So, got to be ready for that.” It was Elanga’s second goal in four days as a substitute after coming off the bench at Leeds to score last weekend. “Whenever I get an opportunity for the club I just want to repay the favour to the manager and just leave nothing in the tank and give 150 per cent every time I step onto that pitch and just enjoy it,” he beamed. “I just do what I can do when I go on the pitch, I always tell myself I want to be the best player on the pitch. I appreciate the boss and like I said before every time he puts me on, I just want to repay the favour to him.” The Reds had fallen behind on the night to a Joao Felix header early on, but Elanga said the Reds always knew we had a chance of getting back into it. “You got to stay in the game because anything could happen, it’s the Champions League. It’s the best club competition in the world, anything could happen,” he added. “You got to stay ready for the full 90 minutes. Obviously, we didn’t play the best football in the first half and then in the second half with the substitutions that we made, I think we stepped up a bit.” Discussing the instuctions he was given by the manager, the young forward revealed: “He said to me, what I always do, just make the defenders scared and run in behind and then when I get an opportunity take it. “We wanted a good result for the fans because they travelled a long way and hopefully the next leg at Old Trafford will be even better.”