The Oyo State Government and the Ibadan Electricity Distribution Company, on Thursday, resolved the differences that led the state to seal some business offices of the DISCO. The two parties, after a meeting at the Government Secretariat, Agodi, Ibadan declared their readiness to work together to find an amicable resolution of all issues surrounding the recent sealing of the IBEDC offices in Ibadan by the state government. The parties, in a statement jointly released shortly after a meeting, vowed to continue to work together in the interest of the residents of the state. They assured members of the public of the restoration of electricity as soon as possible, adding that the two parties would continue amicable resolution of the issue and work together to make electricity meters available to all residents of the state. The statement jointly signed by the Oyo State Commissioner for Energy & Mineral Resources, Temilolu Ashamu, and the Chief Operating Officer of the IBEDC, John Ayodele, read in part, “This is to notify the general public that the Oyo State Government and the IBEDC have resolved and agreed to work together in the interest of the public. “The general public is hereby assured of the restoration of electricity supply as soon as possible, while the two parties shall continue amicable resolution of the issue in the interest of the public, including working together to make electricity meters available to residents of the state.” The management of Ibadan Electricity Distribution Company Plc had cut power supply to the Oyo State Secretariat because the state government has yet to pay N450m owed to the firm for electricity supply. Later, Oyo State Board of Internal Revenue sealed offices of the Ibadan Electricity Distribution Company over a tax default in excess of N400m. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com