Eleos Specialist Hospital became the first hospital in Abia State to commence laser surgery for kidney, bladder or ureteric stones; a procedure where stones are removed without cutting patients open with the surgical knife. Having commenced about one (1) year ago with endoscopic surgeries for the prostate amidst other minimally invasive surgeries, the hospital aims at employing the latest technologies in the world to give patients a world-class touch to healthcare at the most affordable costs. According to Dr. Paul Ngwu, Consultant Urologist (MBBS, Cert. LMIH, FWCS),“Kidney stones are small hard deposits that form right in the urine and are deposited in the Kidney. Kidney stone cases are becoming a recurring decimal in current times and a lot of people don’t know what to do about them. As a matter of fact, most people don’t know that they are suffering from kidney stones.” He continues by saying, “the kidney is a very important organ in the body as it’s responsible for the removal of waste products from the body.” He further states that the signs and symptoms associated with kidney stone cases are subtle and can be mistaken for something else. Some of the major symptoms include flank or back pain, nausea, vomiting, blood/traces of bloodin the urine. He clearly states that some of the factors that expose anyone to the development of kidney stones are poor water drinking habit, a family history/past records of kidney stones and excessive consumption of diets rich in proteins, salt, sugar etc. “If a patient is referred to us and presents with these symptoms, we would carry him/her through the necessary investigations like; Ultrasound scans and CT scans to ascertain the position and size of the stone so that we can proffer the best solution for the patient.” He adds. Eleos Specialist Hospital is well equipped with the appropriate facilities and provides laser lithotripsy (laser surgery) as well as other options of treatment.  The endospic surgical option with laser would save patients the pain of cutting through their bodies with the surgical knife for stones that are too large to respond to water and drug therapy. You can reach or contact us @eleosspecialisthospital.com or call 08033103165, 08163666022 and someone will attend to you ASAP. Contact No. – 08033103165, 08163666022 Website – www.eleoshospital.com Email – Eleosspecialisthospital@gmail.com Facebook – Eleos Specialist Hospital Instagram – @Eleosspecialisthospital