AFEEZ HANAFI examines the mixed reasons some Nigerian men disregard vasectomy, a form of male birth control method Olawale Ajia is a passionate advocate of family planning. With a three-year gap in-between each of his four children, the 61-year-old Lagos-based lawyer is keen on birth control. Armed with the knowledge of Nigeria’s dwindling economy, heightened poverty and high cost of living, the native of Kwara State has been unwavering in the family planning advocacy. But despite being married for 36 years with a slim tendency to have another child, the sexagenarian draws the line at vasectomy, a male sterilisation involving “surgical cutting and sealing” of the two ends of vas deferens – the duct which conveys sperm from the testicle to the urethra – to prevent sperm from getting through. “I will not submit to that,” he said frankly. “If you ask men, they would say they are virtually dead (after a vasectomy). No man will have self-esteem again when he has already been deprived of his manliness.” Even after being told that the birth control method neither affected erection nor tampered with sexual performance, Ajia would not budge; he ruled out any possibility of embracing vasectomy. “I think there are other contraceptive methods that a man can adopt other than vasectomy. It is not that easy,” he insisted. Ajia however said he subscribed to other birth control methods which he believed had less risks and side effects. He stated, “I believe in family planning on many grounds. There is the reality ground; the state of the economy. There is the health reality in terms of parents, especially the mother, having good health to take care of the children. There is also a religious perspective to it. God enjoins that no man should put on himself a burden he doesn’t have the capacity to shoulder. “There is evidence the Prophet (SAW) even advised coitus interruptus (withdrawal method) to space children. So, in view of many reasons, I encourage family planning. I am aware men can do vasectomy but I don’t think family planning has to go to that extreme.” Interestingly, Ajia’s views on vasectomy aptly capture apathy of most Nigerian men in the procedure unlike their counterparts in developed countries. In the United States for instance, vasectomy has become a widely-used form of male contraception chosen by approximately five to 10 per cent of couples. Each year, more than 500,000 men in the US choose vasectomy for birth control with about 50 million men said to have had it, according to Cleveland Clinic – a leading medical centre in the US renowned for providing specialised health care and research. “Vasectomy is a simple, safe and effective means of permanent contraception or birth control. Because of the way that male sexual organs are positioned, the procedure is straight-forward. It is intended to provide a man with permanent contraception, or make him unable to father a child in the future,” the hospital wrote on its website. The fear that the birth control method might be irreversible is a major discouragement for Mr Solomon Neye, a member of a Lagos-based civil society organisation, Advocates for Children and Vulnerable Persons Network. Though he said he and his wife decided to quit childbearing some 12 years ago after bearing three children, vasectomy was not an option on the cards for the 56-year-old rights activist. He said, “I subscribe to family planning but I can’t have a vasectomy. Until you explained it now, I didn’t fully understand what it means. It is risky and I can never do it. Why should I freeze my semen when I can use other contraceptives such as condoms? “I prefer that only women should do family planning because I believe the safety is more ascertained than that of men. Many Nigerian men don’t believe in vasectomy and its safety is not ascertained as far as I am concerned. Besides, most men won’t do it because they have a mission.” Nigeria’s population and birth control In December 2020, the National Population Commission estimated Nigeria’s population at 206 million, eight million higher than the 198 million it estimated two years earlier. The country’s population, half of which is under 19 years, was projected to double by 2050. In its report tagged Poverty and Inequality in Nigeria 2019, released in May 2020, the National Bureau of Statistics said more than 82.9 million Nigerians were poor. And five million more Nigerians were expected to have become poor as a result of the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. Pre-COVID, Nigeria had been declared the world’s poverty capital in a report by Brookings Institution, displacing India from the infamous position. In light of the glooming economic indices, some stakeholders have called for birth control as one of the measures to regulate the exponential population growth and the worsening poverty in the country. So far, the use of contraceptives for birth control has been generally low in Nigeria. The NBS in a report on August 24, 2021 said about 16 per cent of Nigeria’s women used any form of contraception; 12 per cent of which preferred modern methods. The development has threatened the government’s target of achieving a modern contraceptive prevalence rate of 27 per cent among women by 2024 as announced in the Nigeria Family Planning Blueprint for 2020-2024. Amid this slow progress, vasectomy is least considered as a modern birth control method in the country. Vasectomy and fears of uncertainties A father of one, Kolawole Adedapo, plans to stop after one or two more children. It’s a resolve the 33-year-old official of the Independent National Electoral Commission in Osun State made together with his wife four years ago when they tied the knot, because of the prevailing economic situations in the country and the constraints posed by their nine-to-five job. But of the available birth control methods when they eventually had the number of children they intended, vasectomy was never in the mix. “Aaaaah! It’s a no, no for me,” he declared fervently. “I m very sure my wife won’t even consider that as an option of family planning for us. Though, I haven’t heard or read much about it, thinking that my sperm is as useless as mucus wouldn’t be a good feeling at all,” he further noted. Similarly, vasectomy is a no-go area for Michael Oladosu, a master of ceremonies based in Kwara State. In spite of his firm belief in keeping the number of children in a family in check, the father of one would not indulge in vasectomy even after he and his wife eventually reached the agreed number.” He said, “Yes, I believe in family planning but vasectomy is a big no even if I have had enough children. I won’t do it to avoid stories that touch. Inasmuch as I trust my wife, anything can happen. One man may come later to claim the children and DNA will prove that the children belong to him. “Either reversible or not, I can’t do it. Women do family planning for several reasons such as health reasons, to keep themselves in shape and for child spacing, among others.” A worker with a first generation bank in Enugu State, 45-year-old Christian Uzochukwu and his wife had drawn the curtain on childbearing after four kids – boys and girls. He told Sunday PUNCH that her wife had undergone Nexplanon, a birth control implant, to avoid any unwanted pregnancy. The procedure, he said, had made her put on more weight even though she constantly took measures to burn some calories and stay fit. Uzochukwu wished there was a family planning method that would not have any side effects on her wife, but was unwilling to go for vasectomy. He stated, “As much as I pity my wife for a concerted effort she makes to burn fat, I can’t have a vasectomy. I won’t take chances and say because we have decided not to have children again I will do a vasectomy. “I remember I jokingly mentioned it to my wife sometime last year and she said never. She thought I may become impotent after the surgery even though I tried to tell her it won’t affect my sexual performance. That is to tell you that many people don’t believe in it in this part of the world.” A Texas, US-based man, Nigerian, feared an implant or any other birth control procedure could alter his wife’s hormones. He said he was willing to get his vas deferens sealed up but his wife declined. “I really considered that option with the stress we are facing since we had our third child,” he said in a chat with our correspondent. He added, “I will say I am really active with our kids’ parenting, and so I know what having another child will mean for us. Per science, vasectomy is 99 per cent effective compared to other family planning methods. Also, we are trying to avoid family planning that may affect my wife’s hormones, so that makes me really think about it (vasectomy). “My wife doesn’t want me to do it though. I read someone’s review of his experience after the procedure and it seems it may affect sex experience. That is a major drawback and I know 99 per cent of doctors won’t say that especially if a procedure is well supported by their education. “In short, I don’t see anything bad in it but I won’t do it because of the experience it may result in; the experience after having sexual intercourse with one’s partner. For every procedure, there are some chances, though may be little, of something going wrong afterwards.” A media professional, Julius Bamigboye, noted that though vasectomy was currently unpopular in Nigeria, he would go under the knife if his wife agreed. He stated, “I have heard about vasectomy even though I haven’t seen any man in Nigeria come out to say he has done it. I don’t think family planning should be female-centred only. Men too should be involved and it is not out of place to do a vasectomy. “After we must have had the number of children we planned, I can do it. It is the fear of the future that can make some women discourage their husbands from it. There is fear that in case anything happens to the children, how would they get a new one? But to me, we can only pray that our children live long. We don’t have any power over life.” Also, a Deputy Superintendent of Police in Imo State, who identified himself only as Amos, said as much as he would have loved to spare his wife of “the burden of contraception side effects,” he wouldn’t undergo a vasectomy so he wouldn’t regret the decision later. He added, “I would love to have it but the fear that kids may die while we can still reproduce won’t allow me to do it. I may end up regretting taking such a decision.’’ Myths, facts about vasectomy Aside from sexual abstinence, vasectomy is widely described as the most effective means of preventing pregnancy compared to any other method of birth control. It is said that only one to two women out of 1,000 will get pregnant in the year after their partners have had a vasectomy. Besides cultural, social and religious arguments advanced against it, many Nigerians misconstrue vasectomy as a form of castration that impacts negatively on their erection and sexual stamina. In a 2009 research titled, ‘Attitude of men in Nigeria to vasectomy’ carried out by Hygnius Ezegwui and Jamike Enwereji and published in the Royal Society of Tropical Medicine and Hygiene, it was discovered that out of 146 men randomly selected, 10 (6.8 per cent) may accept vasectomy with the knowledge they have while 130 (89.0 per cent) will not. The report stated, “Eighty-eight (67.7 per cent) believe sterilisation procedures should be left for women only. Vasectomy was viewed as castration by 55 (40.7 per cent). Forty-three (31.2 per cent) may consider vasectomy if they understand that it is not associated with problems, 82 (59.4 per cent) refused while 13 (9.4 per cent) did not know if they would ever accept the procedure. “There was a lack of knowledge of vasectomy and attitudes towards it were based on myths and misconceptions regarding the procedure; some may accept it if they understand the safety of it. Interestingly, the level of education does not improve vasectomy uptake.” The research recommended a concerted effort to involve men in reproductive health, noting that interpersonal communication and counseling would greatly improve vasectomy uptake in developing countries. About 12 years later, nothing seems to have changed about the perception of vasectomy in Nigeria. A Professor of Reproductive Health at the College of Medical Sciences, University of Maiduguri, Borno State, Abdulkarim Mairiga, corroborated the low uptake during a phone interview with our correspondent. Mairiga said vasectomy was abhorred even among some medical professionals, especially midwives, thereby compounding the myths around it. He said, “It is rare to see people doing vasectomy in Nigeria. I think people mostly run away from it for cultural, social and religious reasons. Culturally, some people like to have many children and they believe vasectomy is a way of limiting the number of children. “Socially, people believe that when they do vasectomies, they may no longer perform well. They think they may not have erections. Also, once you have a vasectomy, people will think you’re castrated. These are some of the issues that make people run away from it. “I have been in the medical practice for over 30 years and I have never seen anybody coming forward to do a vasectomy. In the University of Maiduguri Teaching Hospital, we had only one case and that was in the 80s. “I am a trainer in reproductive health. Surprisingly, whenever I am giving lectures to midwives and I ask them if they will allow their husbands to have vasectomies, they will all say no they don’t want it. Rather, they are willing to do family planning. They can’t give me a good explanation other than the social aspect of it, thinking their husbands won’t perform well again. This is not true. Vasectomy doesn’t affect erection and sexual performance. People only have that myth and we have to educate them on that.” The medical expert said religion also played a major role in the negative perception of vasectomy in the country, noting that bearing many children was fancied in some faiths. Mairiga said, “For instance in Islam, it is believed that the more number of children you have, the more the Prophet will be happy with you on the Day of Judgment. But that is if you train them well. Another thing is that some religious people will tell you that why should you try to stop a child that is destined to come.” Also, a urologist, Dr Gabriel Ogah, said most Nigerians shunned vasectomy on the grounds that “it is wrong culturally” and inappropriate amid the uncertainties in the country. He said, “Many people feel the country is not safe; there is societal uncertainty. People are not sure of anything. In a country where you are not sure of anything, why should you sterilise yourself?” Online sources suggested that the cost of vasectomy, which is around N1m, could be one of the factors discouraging men from it. But Ogah rebuffed the amount, saying the surgery was not expensive as it is easy to perform. He however did not disclose the cost. He explained, “The cost shouldn’t be a major factor. Vasectomy is an operation that can be done virtually by most doctors who can do appendicectomy. It is not an operation that is so specialised that it could be expensive. What you saw on the Internet is not the reality. I am in a position to tell you that cost is not a major factor. But I can’t tell you the range of the cost. “We have more problems in Nigeria so I do not think encouraging people to do vasectomy should be a main concern. There are more threats to our current existence than to be worried over vasectomy.” A vasectomy surgeon, Dr Kingsley Odogwu, who spoke at a rally held in Abuja last November to commemorate the 2021 World Vasectomy Day, noted that the procedure remained the safest and best birth control method. He said the percentage of men going for vasectomy and awareness of it were low because the majority of the contraceptives were exclusively for women. Odogwu said, “Instead of the woman going for an operation just for the purpose of preventing a pregnancy from occurring, it is easier and much cheaper for the man to do a vasectomy. “It is a procedure that can even be done in a doctor’s office in less than 15 minutes. This procedure doesn’t affect erection, while sexual drive is still as adequate as it should be.” On her part, the Research, Metrics and Evaluation Manager at Marie Stopes International Organisation Nigeria, Dr Anne Taiwo, observed that the burden of birth control should not be borne by only women. She added, “Vasectomy is effective and safe. It is the safest way of family planning.’’ Side effects of method One major argument against vasectomy is the claim that the procedure is irreversible and one might regret doing it in the future. Mairiga, who also believes vasectomy is largely irreversible, said some people had attempted it but the outcome was not good. “It may lead to fibrosis. The cost involved in reversing it abroad is also high,” he added. According to an August 24, 2020 publication by WebMD, vasectomy can be reversed using two methods: vasovasostomy and vasoepididymostomy. In the former, a doctor sews the ends of the vas deferens from the testes to the penis back together, while the vas deferens is attached to the small organ at the back of each testicle that holds sperm in the latter. The report added, “It (vasoepididymostomy) is far more difficult than a vasovasostomy. Your doctor may only vasoepididymostomy if you can’t have a vasovasostomy or if they don’t think it will work. Vasectomy reversals are performed in a hospital or clinic. You’ll be given anesthesia so you’re not awake and don’t feel anything during the procedure. “It usually takes about two to four hours, and you usually go home the same day. Recovery takes about two weeks. Vasectomies can be reversed a number of times. But the success rate may decrease with each reversal.” The cost of a reversal reportedly ranges between about $5,000 and $15,000 including other charges. Mairiga identified other side effects of vasectomy as pain in the surgery region that may last days, possible infections and “at times collection of semen above the area cut and a complication may arise.” “A man can still impregnate a woman after vasectomy because the action is not immediate. It may take up to three weeks before the sperm gets cleared,” he added. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com