Four days after the withdrawal of services by clearing agents operating in the nation’s maritime sector, car dealers under the aegis of the Lagos State Motor Dealers Association says it will join the maritime sector operators by shutting down all car lots in Lagos State for some hours on Friday (today). The freight forwarders operating at the Ports & Terminal Multipurpose Limited and the Tin-Can Island ports had on Monday embarked on an indefinite strike over what they described as an improper implementation of the electronic valuation and e-invoicing policy of the Federal Government via the Central Bank of Nigeria. They also accused the Nigeria Customs Service of increasing duties payable on imported vehicles unnecessarily. The development has slowed down vehicle clearing activities at the ports. Operators are afraid the situation may lead to congestion at the ports. In what appears to be a solidarity move, car dealers in Lagos State said they were joining the striking agents, adding that car marts in the state would be shut by 12noon on Friday. This was contained in a letter on Thursday, signed by the General Secretary of the association, Olantra Tia, a copy of which was obtained by our correspondent. The letter was titled, “Shutdown of all car lots in Lagos State in solidarity with Nigerian Association of Freight Forwarders’ current strike action.” According to the letter, the freight forwarders are pursuing a common and there is a need to support them. The letter read in part, “At the general meeting held on February 24, 2022, the association decided that all members should shut down car lots on Friday, February 25, 2022, from the morning till 12noon, in solidarity with the current strike action embarked upon by the Nigerian Association of Freight Forwarders (clearing agents) against the sharp increase in the cost of clearing vehicles at the nation’s ports.” “Auto dealers should understand that these body is fighting our cause because the higher the cost of clearing a car, the more unaffordable it becomes.” The group also warned that members who failed to comply with the directive would have their showrooms locked. “It was also decided in the meeting that any auto dealer that fails to abide by this decision will have his/her showroom chained by our taskforce till Monday, February 28, 2022 as the penalty for disobedience.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com