The Niger State Governor, Abubakar Bello, has faulted the plan of the Federal Government to reduce the number of out-of-school children in the country, describing it as an effort in futility. Bello, who made the statement in Minna during the commencement of the national campaign on out-of-school children in the six geopolitical zones of the country on Monday, said insecurity in some states would make the programme unachievable. He stated that it would be insensitive to encourage people to return or take their children to school when they were battling with their lives. “Are we going to talk about schools to the victims who are fighting for their lives?” the governor queried. Bello said unless insecurity was addressed, there will be more out-of-school children, adding that no parent would allow their children to risk their lives because of school. The governor stated, “Unless these situations are tackled, this programme can’t work. If we can’t secure the lives and properties of our people, and ensure that they are safe in their homes and safe to go to school, then this will not work. “Whatever is going to be done towards improving enrolment of children in schools, the security situation has to be tackled first.” He also stated that there was so much work to be done as there were not sufficient schools in the state to cover the large land mass, which was another reason for the over 298,192 out-of-school children in the state. “As a result of the large land mass of the state, some children walk for about five to six kilometres to get to school, and in some of those communities, it is difficult for parents to allow their children, especially girls, go to school,” Bello added. To encourage people to allow their children go to school, he noted that more schools had to be built “to bring schools nearer to them.” In his remarks, the Minister of State for Education, Chukwuemeka Nwajiuba, noted that insecurity and the COVID-19 pandemic increased the number of out-of-school children in the country, adding that the joint effort of the states and the Federal Government was required to reduce the number. He stated that the number of out-of-school children in Nigeria was inimical to the advancement of the country. Nwajiuba called on philanthropists to join hands with the federal and state governments to reduce the number. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com