The Vice President, Yemi Osinbajo, has disclosed that the Federal Government is in the final draft stages of a comprehensive 10-year National Housing Strategy plan that would cater for low-income earners across the country. Osinbajo spoke on Friday in Masaka, Nasarawa State, at the commissioning of 248 housing units and commemoration of the 1,000th home built by the Millard Fuller Foundation, MFF. The vice president’s spokesman, Laolu Akande, disclosed this in a statement he signed on Friday titled ‘Vibrant housing market will boost Nigeria’s economy, people’s livelihood — Osinbajo’. The plan, Osinbajo said, was in line with the federal government vision to build a nation where low-income earners have the dignity of a decent home and livelihood. According to him, the ten years-long plan will help to address the issue of inadequate housing in the country. He added that by ensuring low-income earners have the dignity of a decent home and livelihood, the country’s economy will record growth through a vibrant housing market and also improve the quality of life of Nigerians. Describing the commissioning as “a watershed event in the important work of providing housing for Nigerians who need it most”, the Vice President stated that “while the challenge of inadequate or no-housing undermines the quality of life of many Nigerians on low income, it also denies our economy and, therefore, our collective welfare the growth that is possible through a vibrant housing market.” Osinbajo emphasized that the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.) regime was taking the challenges seriously by addressing the concerns. “The most recent initiative regarding this is the N200 billion National Social Housing Programme under the N2.3 Trillion Economic Sustainability Plan (ESP), which is aimed at delivering homes for Nigerians on a low income, as well as providing jobs for the local industry,” he said. According to Prof. Osinbajo, to ensure that these initiatives are sustained, the Federal Government is in the final draft stages of a comprehensive 10-year National Housing Strategy. The strategy is the first of its kind with input from the private and public sector players. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com