THE Peoples Democratic Party has named a former governor of Osun State, Olagunsoye Oyinlola, Shuaibu Oyedokun and eight others as members of a 10-man committee to reconcile the six governorship aspirants in Osun State ahead of the July 16 election. The party’s National Publicity Secretary, Debo Ologunagba, disclosed this to reporters on Wednesday, as part of the resolutions of the National Working Committee meeting held with the Osun State PDP stakeholders at the party’s national secretariat in Abuja on Tuesday. According to him, the meeting, chaired by the PDP National Chairman, Dr Iyorchia Ayu, has given the special committee one week to liaise with the six aspirants and resolve their grievances amicably. The aspirants include a former lawmaker, Ademola Adeleke; the former Secretary to Osun State Government, Abdulateef Akinbade; Akin Ogunbiyi; Omirin Olusanya, Dele Adeleke and Dotun Babayemi. The NWC also directed the committee and the aspirants to return to the state to commence their meetings. Ologunagba said, “The NWC, members of the National Assembly and other stakeholders agreed that in line with the position of the party to carry every organ of the party along, the meeting decided that we should seek an Osun State solution. “We cannot begin to resolve issues at the National without involving stakeholders and local leaders who are more abreast with issues concerning Osun State PDP. The decision of the meeting is that they will go and meet on all issues. “A committee of 10 under the joint leadership of Shuaibu Oyedokun and former Osun State Governor, Olagunsoye Oyinlola, has been constituted to convene the meeting and bring all members of the party in the state, including the six aspirants together. “This is to enable them to discuss all issues, and they have one week to report back to the party leadership. The meeting went very well, issues were discussed frankly, and it was concluded on a good note.” Asked about the Adeleke brothers, Ademola and Dele, who are vying for the office of governor, the PDP spokesman said the party did not consider that to be a challenge. He said, “The PDP is a party of choice and people are interested in getting the party’s ticket. So, we don’t have an issue with two persons from the same family aspiring to contest on the platform of our party. “The idea of the committee that the PDP has set up is to ensure that there is harmony in the party. This party can discuss and resolve amicably.” On the chances of a consensus candidate emerging, Ologunagba said, “the party will always respect the decision of the local people. We don’t impose decisions here. If the Osun State people come back and say we are into consensus, so be it. But we know there is a level-playing field for everybody.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com