The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission has secured the conviction of five internet fraudsters in Ogun and Osun States respectively. The anti-graft agency secured the convictions through its Ibadan Zonal Command on Thursday before Justice Nathaniel Ayo-Emmanuel of the Federal High Court, Osogbo, Osun State and Justice Oluremi Oguntoyinbo of the Federal High Court, Abeokuta, Ogun State. The EFCC disclosed this in a statement on Friday by its spokesperson, Wilson Uwajaren, titled, ‘Five Internet Fraudsters Convicted in Ogun, Osun’. According to the statement, the suspects were convicted after the court established their involvement in internet fraud. The statement listed the convicts to include Sulaimon Ayub Damilare, Mujeeb Lawal Alabi, Timilehin Paul Ogunleye, Osoko Adesola David and Akinwunmi Emmanuel. The convicts pleaded “guilty” to their separate charges. Justice Nathaniel Ayo-Emmanuel convicted and sentenced Osoko Adesola David to five months imprisonment; Timilehin Paul Ogunleye, four imprisonment; while Akunwunmi Emmanuel bagged three months jail term. Similarly, Justice Oguntoyinbo convicted and sentenced Mujeeb Lawal Alabi to three months imprisonment, while Sulaimon Ayub Damilare bagged four months. The convicts are to restitute their victims and forfeit recovered items to the Federal Government. Meanwhile, The Ilorin Zonal Command of the EFCC also arrested eight persons over their alleged involvement in cyber-fraud, including cheating by personation and love scam. The suspects are Abdulrahman Ridwan, David Ayodeji, Gideon Thomas, Yinus Muiz, Yinus Lateef, Jimoh Ahmed, Lawal Farouk Opeyemi and Oladimeji Ridwan. They were arrested in Basin and Asa-Dam areas of Ilorin, the Kwara State Capital, following credible intelligence about their alleged criminal activities. Items recovered from the suspects include: exotic cars, mobile phones and laptops. The anti-graft agency, however, said the suspects would be charged to court as soon as the investigation was completed. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com