Jigawa State Government on Tuesday said it will soon lift the embargo on employment following the retirement of staff both at the state and levels across the 27 Local Government Areas of the state. The Chairman, Jigawa State Local Government Service Commission, Uba Ringim (retd), made the disclosure on Tuesday, during an interactive session, with the Media, reviewing the 2021 activities of the Commission. The embargo placed on employment by the Jigawa state Government for some time has caused a gridlock for job seekers at the Local and State Government levels. While briefing newsmen in his office in Dutse, Ringim said JSLGSC organised not less than 56 workshops and spent over N218 million in training and retraining of 828 staff across the 27 Local Government Areas in 2021, ostensibly to equip its workforce, with the necessary capacity. Also, the chairman explained that, in the year under review, the Commission sponsored an in-service continuous education for 634 employees from the Local Government Areas in the state. While fielding journalists’ questions, JSLGSC Chairman, said, “About N59 million was spent in sponsoring 194 staff, who were trained as Forest Guards, Health Vanguards and Assistant Works Superintendents.” On the staff promotion in 2021, Ringim hinted that about 1,433 senior staff were promoted, while the retirement benefits of 586 staff from both LGAs and LGEA were also approved by the Commission. The JSLGSC’s Chairman, who expressed appreciation on the commitment of the Local Government staff, however, warned them against lateness and absenteeism to work, urging the entire staff to report for duty at the stipulated time, as well as be hard working, so as to justify their monthly emolument. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com