AHEAD of the 2023 general elections, the Independent National Electoral Commission has said that despite the creation of new polling units, some of the old polling units were still congested. This is as the commission stated that it would ensure that voters are reassigned to the new polling units by choice or mandatory assignment. This was disclosed in a publication made available to our correspondent by the Chief Press Secretary to the INEC chairman, Rotimi Oyekanmi, on Saturday in Abuja. The PUNCH had reported that the commission in June 2021, announced the creation of 56,872 new polling units across the 36 states and the Federal Capital Territory bringing the total number of polling units in the country to 176,846. The INEC Chairman, Prof Mahmood Yakubu, had explained that the creation of the new polling units was part of the commission’s plans to ensure free, fair and credible elections. In the publication, the commission explained that it was backed by the law to assign voters to polling units but decided not to use its constitutional power to prevent disruptions that may occur on election dates. “Section 42 of the Electoral Act [as amended] empowers INEC to establish polling units and assign voters to them. However, the commission decided that to prevent disruptions that may occur on election day if voters are not aware of polling units to which they are assigned, voters will be allowed to choose the polling units at which they would vote”. The commission further explained that voters were allowed to “register in any polling unit of choice during the continuous voter registration[ for fresh registrants]; individuals could transfer voting locations to new ones during the CVR (Continuous Voter Registration) and communities, where new polling units were established, could collectively request to be transferred to these new polling units during the CVR”. The commission, however, lamented that individuals did not seize the opportunities given to transfer voting locations to the new polling units which the commission stated could be as a result of voters’ preference to remain where they voted previously out of a feeling of uncertainty about the actual functioning of the new polling units or lack of understanding by voters that they must initiate transfers to the new polling units. The publication added, “Although one of the aims of the expansion of access to polling units was to decongest polling units, the foregoing shows that some polling units are still congested. “However, clearly the exercise succeeded in decongesting some polling units. With time, and certainly before the 2023 general elections, a more balanced distribution of voters to the polling units will be achieved. This will be done through a combination of voluntary choices by voters and through assignment by the commission.” Meanwhile, data obtained from the website of the commission on Saturday revealed that only 47.6 per cent of fresh registrants have completed their registration since the continuous voters’ registration began in June 2021. The INEC chairman had last year said that the commission was expected to register 20 million Nigerians before July 2022. However, the latest statistics released by INEC revealed that while a total of 5,353,744 individuals had commenced the registration process, only 2,805,089 had completed both the online and physical registrations. The statistics further stated that a total of 5,528,085 were youths while 2,252,249 were middle-aged. Further analysis of the data also revealed that Osun state had the highest number of fresh registrants which was followed by Delta, Bayelsa, Kano, Anambra and Rivers. The states with the lowest number of fresh registrants include Imo, Yobe, Zamfara, Ondo, Ogun and Taraba with less than 50,000 fresh entries. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com