A disease is defined as a physical or mental disturbance involving symptoms like pain or feeling unwell, dysfunction or tissue damage that may lead to ill health. Diseases can be acute (coming on sharply, brief, intense or severe) or chronic (long-lasting with persistent effects ranging from mild to severe). Chronic diseases can range from mild to more significant conditions and include: A disease or condition that usually lasts for three months or longer may get worse over time. Chronic diseases tend to occur in older adults and can usually be controlled but not cured. More and more people are living with 1 or more chronic conditions daily. Although common and costly, many chronic diseases are also preventable. Many chronic diseases are linked to lifestyle choices that are within our own hands to change. Eating balanced and nutritious foods, becoming more physically active and avoiding tobacco can help keep one from developing many of these diseases and conditions. And, even if one already have diabetes, heart disease, arthritis or another chronic condition, eating more healthful food and getting more exercise, whether it’s a brisk walk, a bike ride, a jog or a swim, can help better manage illnesses, avoid complications and prolong life. Risk factors There are many things that affect the risks of developing chronic conditions. We call these ‘risk factors.’ It falls into two main groups: Modifiable Risks – These are risks within one’s control, one can change them (for example, smoking, drinking, being overweight, not being physically active) Non Modifiable Risks- These are risks one cannot change (for example, age, gender, genes that are inherited). Having risk factors increases the chance of  getting chronic conditions. Changing the risk factors one has control over can helpprevent some chronic conditions. Reducing these risk factors in one’s own life can help keeps healthier for longer years. Most chronic illnesses do not fix themselves and are generally not cured completely. Doctors are able to manage chronic conditions meaning those affected will have to have repeated hospital visits for follow-up appointments. Comorbidity of chronic diseases Comorbidity refers to the occurrence of two or more conditions or diseases in a person at one time. Chronic conditions often occur together. The most common comorbidity is arthritis with cardiovascular disease, followed by arthritis with back pain and problems, chronic hepatitis B infection and cancer, diabetes and hypertension . Management/Interventions Chronic Diseases including cardiovascular diseases, cancer, chronic respiratory diseases and diabetes – kill 41 million people yearly. Prevention and investment in chronic diseases are important. Chronic diseases management interventions are essential for achieving the global target of a 25 per cent relative reduction in the risk of premature deaths from chronic diseases by 2025, and the sustainable development goals (SDGs) target of a one-third reduction in premature deaths from chronic disease by 2030. A genuinely public health approach is needed: Health promotion and education that takes place in a variety of settings, ranging from one on one consultations to formal group education, talks on lifestyle modifications such as smoking cessation, reduction of alcohol intake, pain and fatigue management. It should also involve the provision of accessible, comprehensive, and coordinated services. A systems approach is key: and involves good governance, appropriate resourcing, and timely information, as well as the actual delivery of health services or technologies. A whole-of-government, multi-sectoral approach is required: Tackling the health, social, and economic consequences of mental disorders and other chronic diseases is not something that the health sector can or should do alone. Physiotherapy and Chronic Disease Physiotherapists play roles both in the prevention and management of chronic diseases. Their roles include and are not limited to: Prescription and implementation of therapeutic exercise at an individual or group level, and lead exercise and education classes for people who have been diagnosed or with chronic diseases. Management of people with chronic lung diseases including asthma through exercise prescription and cardio-pulmonary rehabilitation. Prescription of exercise therapy to improve glucose control in people with or at risk of developing diabetes. Cardiac rehabilitation programmes for people with various forms of heart diseases. Provision of interventions including therapeutic exercise to reduce the risk of osteoporotic fracture. Conclusion Chronic diseases are already the major cause of death in almost all countries, and the threat to people’s lives, their health and economic development. Lifestyle changes like exercise, eating healthy diets rich in fruits and vegetables, medical screening exercise, avoiding smoking, quitting alcohol intake and prevention via immunization against viral diseases implicated in causing cancer.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com