Wellness HMO has announced the launch of a healthcare service delivery application, called ‘Wellness Plus’. A statement quoted the Group Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer, Wellness HMO, Adetutu Afolabi, said the company was set to make healthcare service affordable and accessible to Nigerians. She said, “Individuals have the choice to access healthcare on the go, at any time. They can pay for only the care they need even if they don’t have any health insurance plan. These services include dental and eye care, basic, comprehensive, pre-employment, and cancer screening, among others. “Individuals can also request for a doctor to consult with them virtually or visit them at home.” According to her, individuals will not be restricted to any specific hospital, at any particular time, as they can also choose from the range of hospitals available on the app for specific health needs. “Users now have the power to choose the benefits and the hospital they want for themselves, their spouses, and their children,” she added. The Executive Secretary, Nigeria Health Insurance Scheme, Prof. Mohammed Sambo, was quoted as saying, “Wellness HMO has just shown me when it comes to the use of technology they are not resting on their oars and are using technology to reach out to Nigerians who we are also trying to reach out to.” Represented by the Deputy General Manager, NHIS, Lagos Zonal Office, Dr Bethuel-Kasimu Abraham, at the launch, he said, “At NHIS, we are not working in isolation; we are working with stakeholders like Wellness HMO. “Our major interest is how many Nigerians are covered by health insurance but not how many are covered by NHIS.” The Special Adviser to the Lagos State Governor on Innovation and Technology, Tubosun Alake, described the new app as a practical example of finding local solutions to local problems, saying it would transform the health sector in all ramifications. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com