The Emir of Daura in Katsina State, Alhaji Umar Faruq, on Saturday said the Kano-Daura-Katsina rail line which would terminate at Maradi, in The Niger Republic; and the Federal University of Transportation, Daura, earned the Minister of Transport, Rotimi Amaechi, recognition by the Daura Emirate. Faruq, who disclosed this at the turbaning of Amaechi as ‘Dan Amana Daura (the trusted son of Daura), said the emirate does not confer titles on individuals for financial reasons but based on merit and services rendered by such persons to the Daura Emirate and Nigerians. Governor Aminu Masari, the Ooni of Ife, Oba Adeyeye Ogunwusi: and a former Chief of Army Staff, who is also Nigeria’s Ambassador to the Republic of Benin, Lt.General Tukur Buratai (retd.), and the Minister of Sports, Sunday Dare, were among the dignitaries who attended the ceremony. The Minister of Information and Culture, Lai Mohammed, had while briefing journalists on the achievements of the Buhari regime in 2021 said the Federal Government signed a Memorandum of Understanding for the construction of the $1.959bn Kano-Maradi standard gauge line with the Portugues firm, Mota-Engil Group. He said the project was part of the government’s ongoing initiative to provide inter-modal means of transportation across the country and enhance trade between Nigeria and some African countries. He added that upon completion, the standard gauge line would promote the import and export of goods from the Niger Republic and other countries in the sub-region through Nigerian ports. Also, Amaechi had on Friday said the Federal Government was negotiating with Standard Chartered Bank for a loan to fund rail projects in Nigeria. But speaking at the turbaning on Saturday, the Emir of Daura, said the rail and university projects would create employment and provide education to youths in the state, and promote the socio-economic development of the community “Daura Emirate does not confer titles on people because of money. The emirate considers the services rendered to humanity by whoever he wants to honour. “The Kano-Daura-Katsina rail line which will terminate at Maradi (The Niger Republic) and the Federal University of Transportation, Daura, would bring us benefits in the education of our youths, create employment for our teeming youths and socio-economic development of our community and that of Nigeria.It is because of all these that we are honouring him with the title,” the monarch said. He, however, urged Nigerians not to relent in their prayers for the President, Major-General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), whom he said deserved the support and prayers of every Nigerian. The royal father who spoke in Hausa added, “My speech is not complete without showing gratitude to President Muhammadu Buhari. I call on all Nigerians to continue their support and prayers for the President as he navigates our great country through numerous challenges. We pray for Allah’s guidance and protection for him as he pilots our country towards economic revitalisation, progress and development.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com