Some members of the All Progressives Congress in Rivers State loyal to the former lawmaker representing Rivers South-East Senatorial District, Senator Magnus Abe, have alleged fresh moves by some groups to exclude the party from participating in the 2023 general elections. They specifically accused Abe of conniving with the Rivers State Government to achieve their aim as they did in 2019 through the courts. Two APC members, Tonte Amachree and Kelvin Okechukwu, in a statement made available to our correspondent, alleged that the State PDP Chairman, Ambassador Desmond Akawor, was in attendance at a meeting by the Abe group where he advised them on how to proceed with the suit against the APC and it’s former caretaker chairman, Isaac Ogbobula, and its reassignment to a new judge. They went further to call on the national leadership of the APC to act fast and call Abe and his group in order to avoid a repeat of the party’s 2019 fortune in 2023. The statement read in part, “We have been loyal and active members of the Magnus Abe group. Last Thursday, we were called by Bethel Oko-Jaja and Ben Horsefall who are known leaders of the Magnus Abe group in the Opobo/Nkoro and Asari-Toru local government areas, respectively. “They called us to a meeting where we would sign an affidavit to join in the suit against the APC in Rivers State and its former caretaker chairman, Isaac Ogbobula. The meeting was held at the house of Worgu Boms, a former attorney general of Rivers State under the administration of a former governor, Rotimi Amaechi. The State PDP Chairman, Ambassador Desmond Akawor, was also in that meeting “Why would the chairman of the opposition party be in our meeting? How can the leadership of the opposition PDP be in our midst, encouraging us and even guiding us on how to pull down our own party from the inside? We silently walked out of that devilish meeting with the realisation that we’ve been fooled all along. We cannot afford our party not to be on the ballot again; we refuse to let 2019 repeat itself in 2023.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com