An Ekiti State Magistrate’s Court, Ado Ekiti District, has ordered the remand of 15 persons, including a 72-year-old man, over alleged murder and robbery in Ado Ekiti and neighbouring Ilawe Ekiti in Ekiti State. The defendants include Abdulrahman Ibrahim (72), Ojo Tope (33), Damilola Christopher (29), Joshua Adegoke (24), Aderopo Temitope (36), Oyedele Oluwatobi (26), Bello Ojo (26), Fabiyi Kehinde (35) and Ayo Odeyemi (50). Others are Giwa Tosin, Adaranijo Martins, Adekanmbi Iseoluwa, Oladunjoye Joke, Kabiru Mohammed and Ekundayo Ajiboye. The defendants were accused of having “murdered one Joseph Blessing on November 18, 2021 around 1am in Ado Ekiti.” They were also “suspected to have committed the offence of armed robbery in Ado Ekiti and Ilawe Ekiti, including the robbery of two persons, Ajiboye Olajide and Lateef Temitope Buhari.” In separate statements made by the defendants to the police, they allegedly confessed to terrorising students of the Federal Polytechnic, Ado Ekiti, and some residents in Ilawe Ekiti. They also allegedly admitted to dispossessing them of their phones, laptops, money and other valuables while armed with guns. The police prosecutor, Inspector Bamikole Olasunkanmi, said the offences were contrary to and punishable under sections 6, 1 (2)a of the Robbery and Firearms (Special Provisions) Act. 398 Laws of the Federation of Nigeria, 2004, and Section 320 of the Criminal Code, Cap. C16, Laws of Ekiti State, 2012. Olasunkanmi urged the court to remand the defendants in a custodial centre to allow him to duplicate the case file and forward same to the Director of Public Prosecutions for legal advice. The Chief Magistrate, Michael Falola, said, “The defendants are hereby ordered to be remanded in the custody of the Nigerian Correctional Services, Ado Ekiti, pending advice from the DPP.” Falola adjourned the matter till March 15, 2022, for mention.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com