A 33-year-old native of Ogun State, Kehinde Badmus, is currently battling for his life having reportedly developed gastrointestinal bleeding which has crippled his liver. City Round learnt that Kehinde, who runs a cooking gas outlet, needs to undergo a liver transplant estimated to cost N11m which neither he nor his poor family could afford. It was gathered that since he was bedridden last November, his health had been deteriorating as the family struggled in vain to raise the money. “I fell sick early last year but recovered,” Kehinde said, with apparent pain in his voice. “It recurred about five months ago and I have been struggling with it till now,” he added faintly, battling for strength to continue the conversation. His father, Ganiyu Badmus, explained that his son’s condition had become critical and appealed to members of the public to come to the family’s aid. He said, “We took him to the Federal Medical Centre, Abeokuta and he was referred to a private specialist hospital on Victoria Island, Lagos. We have spent N900, 000 so far. The hospital said he would undergo a liver transplant at a cost of about N11m. He is now at home. “We have been running around and haven’t been able to raise even N1m since. I am a retiree; we don’t have any means. The pain is too much for him; his stomach has become bloated. We are begging for help from Nigerians.” A medical report by the Lagos hospital, IRDOCNigeria, dated February 7, 2022, revealed that Kehinde is mainly suffering from “upper gastrointestinal bleeding with features of decompensated cirrhosis.” It read in part, “Workup demonstrated positive hepatitis B infection with endoscopic features of gastroesophageal varices and porta hypertensive gastropathy. He has since had several episodes of gastrointestinal bleeding not happen approximately every two weeks the last of which was a few days ago. “On physical exam, there is evidence of diffuse muscle wasting however no evidence of jaundice…. He clearly has decompensated liver disease with meld of 19 with the ultimate solution being a liver transplant. “While he is waiting for transplant evaluation, he will benefit from transjugular intrahepatic portosystemic shunt with embolization of gastroesophageal varices to decrease the likelihood of repeat upper gastrointestinal bleeding and improve his ascites.” Donations for the treatment of the patient can be sent to his Fidelity Bank account with the name Badmus Kehinde and account number, 6170957604. Jawondo, however, said that no stone would be left unturned until justice was served on the matter.