Senator Ibrahim Shekarau-led G-7 has rejected the All Progressives Congress’ template for the harmonisation of the party structure in Kano State to address the lingering leadership crisis in the state. APC had in a letter addressed to Kano Governor Abdullahi Ganduje by the APC National Chairman, Caretaker/Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee, Mai Mala Buni, provided a template for power-sharing in the state. But Shekarau’s G-7 faulted the template, saying, “the entirety of the content of your letter is totally unacceptable to us.” This was contained in a letter titled “Re: Guidelines for the Harmonization of the Party Structure in Kano”. Among the reasons they stated was that the template did not acknowledge all the proposals tabled by both parties at the several reconciliation meetings. They also complained that the template had gone viral on social media before it got to them. “We had anticipated that the communication from you would be reflective of the proposals and/or submissions made to you. “Regrettably, however, your said letter to us never contained the proposals and/or submissions put forward by both sides, not even made reference to them,” part of the rejection letter read. The template
The letter containing the template was signed by the National Chairman’s Chief of Staff, Abdullahi Gashua. It said that “Hon. Mai Mala Buni decided to wade in, to restore sanity and bring back unity of purpose and re-enact the eroded trust among the APC members, Kano state family. “With the support of capable and tested hands, the reconciliation committee headed by Gov. Buni, sat with leading lights of the two sides. “And painstakingly examined all issues raised which bothered mainly on exclusion. “That, Gov. Abdullahi Ganduje is the undisputed APC leader in Kano state, and as the leader, he is encouraged to demonstrate leadership to accommodating key stakeholders. “That none of the two sides can have 100 per cent of its demands and that you cannot lack what you give, you only lack what you keep,” it said. The letter further gave terms of reference of the caucus formation at local government and state levels. “Each local government caucus will meet and come up with a proposed structure for all wards and local government. “The proposed structure will be forwarded to the Joint National/State Committee for final vetting or amendment, as the case may be,” it said. It noted that all caucuses were restricted to only their local government areas. According to the letter, the caucus shall have the following as members, serving senators and House of Reps Members from the local government, if any. Others were serving members of the state assembly, serving chairman and his deputy and commissioner. The rests were Special Advisers from the area and one woman to be nominated by the governor in consultation with Sen. Shekarau. The letter indicated that the National/State Joint Committee reserves the right to adopt or amend any proposal submitted to it by the local government caucus. “The National/State Joint Supervisory Committee members were Abdullahi Ganduje, Ibrahim Shekarau, Bello Matawalle of Zamfara State, Yakubu Dogara and Sen. Abba Ali. “The committee will sit in Kano and will have seven days within which to complete and submit its report. “The state supervisory committee is to be headed by Ganduje who is the party leader and will be assisted by Sen. Ibrahim Shekarau,” the letter indicated. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com