The Academic Staff Union of Universities has said Joint Admissions and Matriculations Board has no right to conduct higher institutions admission. A statement signed by the national president, ASUU, Prof. Emmanuel Osodeke, said JAMB’s action of handling higher institutions admission was an encroachment in to the University autonomy. It explained that JAMB had no power to decide qualification for admission and had no power to give admission or delist programmes of universities. “The autonomy of universities is under increasing threat by the meddlesome activities of JAMB in admission processes and regulation of academic activities in the Nigerian University System. JAMB was created by an Act of the National Assembly in 1978 and is responsible for the conduct of matriculation examinations for admission into a tertiary institution in Nigeria, appointment of examiners and collection/dissemination of information on all matters relating to entrance examinations. It is the prerogative and responsibility of each university senate to superintend over all academic matters in the university. These include setting the admission requirements and approval of university undergraduate and postgraduate programmes. ASUU said JAMB was an examination body and clearinghouse for admission into tertiary institutions. “Giving admission to candidates is the duty of senate, while regulation or accreditation of programmers is the prerogative of National Universities Commission. However, it is a matter of regret that JAMB is operating outside its jurisdiction of collecting and disseminating information on matters relating to admissions from respective institutions based on senate recommendations. “We call upon JAMB to desist from overstepping its original mandate and allow Universities to decide on admission policies and processes.” The statement also said ASUU described the appointment of Federal Minister of Communications and Digital Economy of Nigeria, Dr Isah Pantami  as Professor of Cybersecurity by the Federal University of Technology, Owerri illegal. ASUU maintained that Pantami was not qualified, saying the appointment violated established procedure for the appointment of professors in the university. “You may recall that our union disassociated itself from the appointment of Dr Isah Pantami as a professor of cybersecurity by the FUTO during our NEC meeting held at the University of Abuja on 18th-19thNovember, 2021, until a Fact-Finding Team to be dispatched to the branch reports its findings. The team visited the branch on 10th-14thFebruary, 2022, and reported back to NEC. As a result of the comprehensive report submitted on all the relevant matters, NEC hereby rejects in its entity the purported appointment of Pantami as a professor of cybersecurity. “From the evidence available to us, Pantami was not qualified, and the said appointment violated established procedure for appointment of professors in the university. “NEC directed all members and branches of our union throughout the Nigerian federation not to recognise, accord or treat Dr Isah Pantami as a professor of cybersecurity under any guise. NEC also resolved to sanction all ASUU members who participated in the process that led to the illegal appointment in accordance with the established procedures of our union.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com