Borno State Governor, Babagana Zulum, has presented 18 patrol vehicles to strengthen the military and volunteers in the Civilian Joint Task Force dedicated to patrols along the Maiduguri-Dikwa- Gamboru Highway. The governor’s gesture was contained in a statement titled, ‘Zulum gives 18 security vehicles to military, Civilian JTF for Dikwa-Gamboru road patrols’, and signed by his spokesman, Isa Gusau, on Saturday. The statement said Zulum presented the vehicles to the theatre commander of Operation Hadin Kai, Major General Christopher Musa, while inaugurating the reopening of the economic road to commuters on Friday around Muna in Maiduguri. After the reopening, Zulum proceeded to Dikwa town to observe the free movement of commuters to Gamboru, a border town in Ngala LGA without restrictions by security operatives. Commending the governor’s gesture at the occasion, the theatre commander described the reopening of the road as exciting. “For us as members of security forces, we are indeed grateful. Your Excellency, we know this is something that is desirable, and something that is exciting and something that you want for the people of Borno State. “This is part of the peace efforts, with this, there will be development, with development, there will be fewer challenges on security,” the theatre commander said. “This is a great achievement, Your Excellency; thank God for you, thank God for the people of Borno State, and thank God for all the things you are doing to Borno State, especially to members of the armed forces and other security agencies. We want to encourage you not to relent, not to be discouraged because I know the challenges are enormous. “We will give you our support, our cooperation to ensure that Borno State is peaceful and all the other parts of the North-East for life to come back”, Musa assured the governor. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com