Africa’s premier football tournament ended anticlimactically last Sunday with a penalty shootout between Egypt and Senegal. Anticlimactically because a mostly thrilling tournament is expected to end with some spectacular goal-scoring, not a scoreless draw after overtime. But don’t tell that to the Senegalese, though. They stormed the streets and stadia of Dakar and other Senegalese cities and towns in sustained jubilation. And why not? Senegal has been one of Africa’s football powers for years. Yet, they never won the AFCON until last Sunday. So, now Africa’s No. 1 ranked team on the FIFA scale has finally become the No. 1 team in substance. The championship game featured two contending players who happen to be teammates at Liverpool, namely Senegal’s Sadio Mané and Egypt’s Mohamed Salah. At Liverpool, Salah’s star shines brighter. AFCON provided Manéa chance to get out of that shadow—even if for a moment. Yet, Mané seems to have wasted an opportunity when he failed to convert on a penalty kick in the first half. In life, there is no guarantee of a second chance. But Mané got one when the outcome of the game depended on another chance to convert. After the Egyptians uncharacteristically failed to convert on two penalty kicks — and with Senegal leading 3-2 — victory was on Mane’s foot to deliver. It wasn’t at all a given. The talented Egyptian goalkeeper had made several saves during the match, including Mané’s first penalty kick. And he had already saved one during the shootout. But Mane wasn’t about to fail twice. He fired off what appeared to be an angry shot and the ball whizzed past the goalkeeper. Senegal won and Mané’s star shone ever brighter. The morale here is that life does sometimes provide a second chance. And when it does, one better take it. Race not always to the swift The overriding lesson of AFCON 2021/22, however, is the old saying that the race does not belong to the swift. Remember the allegory about a turtle that beat a hare in a race. In AFCON 2021, Nigeria was the hare and Egypt, Tunisia and even champion Senegal were the turtles. Nigeria blazed through group play, raising everyone’s hope for better things to come. It was the only team that won all three games in the group stage. And it had the highest goal differential, that is the difference between goals scored and goals conceded. Yet, the Super Eagles crashed out in their first elimination game. In contrast, Egypt barely advanced from the round-robin stage.  First, they lost 0-1 to Nigeria in both teams’ openers. In fact, the outcome didn’t reflect Nigeria’s domination of the game. They then struggled to beat Sudan and Guinea-Bissau by a single goal each. The game against Guinea-Bissau would have ended in a draw had the VAR not determined that a Guinea-Bissau player committed a foul in the process of scoring a goal. Meanwhile, Nigeria comfortably beat both countries by two-goal margins. So, Egypt barely advanced to the elimination round. Yet they are the one who advanced to the championship game, losing only in a penalty shootout. Even Senegal won only one game in group play. Yet, they are now AFCON champions. That’s life for you. Protesting too much Of the controversies that arose at AFCON, none was more bizarre than that attendant to the premature ending of the group match between Mali and Tunisia. The game ended with Tunisia losing 0-1 and head coach Mondher Kebaier going ballistic. He referred to the ailing referee’s officiating as the “gruesome situation.” Compatriot Hannibal might have told him that a truly gruesome situation is losing more than half your fighting force while trying to cross the Alps during the Punic Wars. Kebaier certainly should have saved the phrase for what happened days later, when at least eight people were trampled to death trying to enter Olembe Stadium in Yaounde. Alas, it is a reality of life that people often blame others for their failures or plight rather than looking in the mirror. In venting against the referee, Kebaier ignored the fact that Mali won by converting on a penalty kick; Tunisia missed theirs. Moreover, the game was just 20 seconds short of full time when the referee whistled it over. They lost to Gambia subsequently by the same score. In any case, Tunisia ended up advancing anyway on the strength of their 4-0 walloping of Mauritania. And then they beat Nigeria in the first elimination game. Lesson: In life, it is advisable to show restraint even in the face of seeming disfavours. People too often fret, fuss or even battle over things that in the end don’t matter. Or when they matter, it is only marginally so. Curse of success Back to the Super Eagles, Nigerians would have been disappointed with any performance short of hoisting the AFCON trophy. But by performing so well in group play, the Super Eagles set expectations even higher in the stratosphere. That made the loss to Tunisia so shocking. What fans might not know is that Tunisia (29th) tops Nigeria (36th) in FIFA ranking. In any case, despite the early elimination, this assembly of Super Eagles look very promising. They played with more zest and artistry than I can recall. It was not a fluke that they were the only team that won all three group games with the highest goal differential. The future lies on the feet of such young stars as Moses Simon. We may as well call him Colonel Simon. It is reported that his military father wanted him to follow in his footsteps, but he opted for soccer and the Super Eagles. On the field, the 26-year-old is incessantly unnerving the defences of Super Eagles foes. So, we may as well reward him with the honorary rank of Colonel, with expectations of promotion to general perhaps during the Qatar World Cup later this year. If nothing else, that should assuage the dad. Remembering Foé This is an unfortunate segue from the musings above, but I would be remiss if I don’t touch on it. One of the images that are permanently etched in my memory is the moment Cameron’s soccer star Marc-Vivien Foé collapsed and died while playing in the FIFA Confederations Cup in 2003. I was on sabbatical in Nigeria and was visiting a cousin. While busy chatting with relatives I hadn’t seen in years, I wasn’t very attentive to the game on TV. Suddenly, there was an anguished commotion. “He has died, he has died,” my cousin yelled frantically. “Look at his eyes.” I turned to see what she was pointing at, and sure enough the man looked dead. It was a surreal moment. The 28-year-old, it was later reported, had an undiagnosed medical condition. Foé had great plans for the youth of Cameron, including building a soccer academy where they would hone their skills and develop their minds. The complex was underway when he died. Today, it is reportedly overgrown with grass, as pledges to complete it failed to materialise. So too did Cameron’s opportunity to honour their fallen hero, as hosts of the tournament that is much related to the one he died playing in. “Abishola” shall return On the lighter side, why not an update on “Bob Hearts Abishola,” the US sitcom that entertains the world with its veritable take on Nigerian values and culture? Currently in its third season, “Abishola” has been airing original episodes only irregularly. In normal times, that is a sign that the programme is on its way out. But this is 3 CE, as in the COVID Era. Nothing functions the same. So, it came as no surprise that CBS has renewed the programme for its fourth season. The CE factor aside, the script writers have heightened bemusement by playing up “Abishola’s” mother as a major character. Before the elaborate wedding in Lagos, she was occasionally heard from over the phone but hardly seen. Beginning at the wedding, she has been prominently featured as a conceited, overbearing mother. She thinks her son-in-law is a laggard for not turning his compression socks business into a Fortune 500 company. Oh yes, she is the kind that is routinely spotted in Nigerian high society. It makes sense, of course, that she is now on a visit to America, a visit with no return date. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com