The head of health services, Bastion Health Limited, Dr Tokunbo Otitoju, has advised workers and employers on the need to manage stress at workplaces. According to a statement on Thursday by Otitoju, stress is the feeling of being overwhelmed and unable to cope with physical, mental or emotional pressure. He said, “Workplace stress is when this feeling is associated with your workplace. Anyone who has ever held a job long enough has, at some point, felt the pressure of work to the extent that they feel a sense of being unable to cope. Workplace stress is quite common, and it happens to even the best of us. “Admittedly, not all stress is bad. Some stress can have the potential for gain. For instance, stress can make your work faster and teach you to prioritise. It can also cause your creative juices to flow when writing an article with a steep deadline. But when work stress becomes chronic, it becomes harmful to physical and emotional health.” The expert said the most common cause of workplace stress was related to workers who are faced with demands that are not matched to their knowledge, skills sets, or abilities that challenge their ability to cope. Other causes, according to him include working long hours, job insecurity, lack of autonomy, poor organisational support and workplace bullying. “The manifestations of stress often differ from one individual to another; however, there are some common and universal features which include low energy, decreased productivity, frequent headaches, irritability and anger, among others. “That the first and most important rule of stress management is knowing how to strike a balance. You cannot pour from an empty cup. This is the easiest way to understand the importance of managing workplace-related stress. Managing workplace stress is an organisational responsibility, with both the employer and employee having roles to play. “For the employee, there is the need to identify and track your stressors to know which situations create the most stress and how you respond to them. For employers, creating conducive working environments is important. Employees working conditions should be adapted to their different physical and mental capabilities,” Otitoju added. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com