NaijaTab naija news Forum is a customized Nigerian news web portal application for cell phones, tablets and PC devices. The forum aggregates news from various trusted sources to provide the latest Nigerian breaking news in entertainment, politics and sports. The websites cater to thousands of users from around the country. At first, delivered for web devices in late 2020, Naijatab is presently accessible for all mobile and smart devices. The website can be accessed on phones, computers and tablets. The latest version of the app can be found on the google play store. Naijatab was established in April, 2020. In December 2021, the main mobile 9ja news application was released on the google play store. As of January 2022, the mobile application is able to deliver news in a timely manner with push notifications. Feedback is greatly appreciated on the forum and we are committed to providing the best services for our members in terms of security and timely publication of news. Naijatab forum is striving to bring the local community feeling to an online setting with various social media functions such as the ability for members to share messages both privately and publicly on the forum threads. Users are able to voice their opinion on various topics in accordance with the forum rules. Naijatab is currently one of the best news aggregating websites in Nigeria. Naijatab does not only provide news, users are able to discuss a wide variety of topics such as finance, real estate, parenting, literature, culture and travel alongside various other topics. Registered members of the forum are able to upload videos, pictures and various other multimedia attachments. The site admin can be contacted with just the click of a button and would usually get back within a 24 hours period. Communicating can sometimes be one of the most frustrating experiences for forum users and administrators. You sometimes need to reach people or have long discussions with other users or staff, and it just does not work. Without proper communication with users and staff members, you cannot expect a solid newsnaija forum. Naijatab is committed to listening to every member of the forum and answering their queries or questions. Communicating is the basis for a successful online community and it can mean all the difference. There are different and effective ways of communicating with members, staff, and forum administrators. Each form of communicating has a good and bad side to it, so knowing these will hopefully allow you to make smarter decisions when communicating with your members. Quick communication, ability to talk to groups at once, ability to transfer information quickly and effectively, instant message notification and private conversations are a few of the functions provided on the forum. Methods Of Communications on NaijaTab Naija News Forum All these forms of communication has been provided on Naijatab Forum to ensure that the forum runs effectively. Naijatab is looking to accommodate more users and keep them up to date on news, events and activities happening in the country