The Senator Ibrahim Shekarau-led faction of the All Progressives Congress in Kano State has insisted that fairness, justice and all-inclusive party members must be ensured to pave way for peaceful resolution of the lingering leadership crisis. Recall that the faction had on February 7th written a letter to the party headquarters rejecting the party structure sharing formula released for Kano. In another letter forwarded to the APC headquarters titled ‘RE: Guidelines For Harmonization of the Party Structure in Kano’, dated February 10. The faction, in the letter, demanded 55 per cent of the party structure as well as the chairman of the party. The letter, sighted by our correspondent, was signed by Senator Ibrahim Shekarau (APC-Kano Central), Senator Barau Jibrin (APC-Kano North), Tijjani Jobe (APC-D/Tofa/Rimingado Federal Constituency), Nasiru Gabasawa (APC-Gezawa/Gabasawa Federal Constituency), Haruna Dederi (APC-Karaye/Rogo Federal Constituency), Sha’aban Sharada (APC-Kano Municipal Federal Constituency) and Shehu Dalhatu (Chairman, Buhari Support Group). They also insisted that any reconciliation committee and/or reconciliatory engagements must not be headed by the governor as he is a party to all the disagreements. Similarly, as part of the reconciliation process, the group demanded the withdrawal of all appeals filed by the Governor’s side as evidence of a transparent process capable of strengthening the confidence of the members. The letter reads in part, “We are in receipt of your letter dated 8th of February 2022 in respect of the above stated subject matter, served on our leader, H.E. Dist. Senator Ibrahim Shekarau (Sardaunan Kano), on the 9th of February 2022, and it is in response thereto, we hereby write you. “We will continue to recognise your genuine intention to strengthen the APC through initiatives of reconciliation and peacebuilding wherever the party faces internal disputes. Further, we are confident that you are competent to make all the right decisions to move our party generally, and the Kano State chapter particularly, forward and put it back on the path of progress. “The constitution of our great party has clear and unambiguous provisions in respect of the different caucuses of the party. We find it inappropriate to be subjected to any other suggested composition of the L.G. Caucus. “It is because of the aforementioned reasons and more, that we forwarded to you our response to your letter of 7th February 2022 and now hereby reaffirm that: “1. We still stand by our proposal of 55% with the State Chairman in our favour while conceding 45% of the party positions to the Governor’s side, without any further compromise. “2. Any reconciliation Committee and/or reconciliatory engagements must not be headed by the governor as he is a party to all the disagreements. “3. The continuation of the reconciliation process must be subject to the withdrawal of all appeals filed by the Governor’s side as evidence of a transparent process capable of strengthening our confidence. “We urge you, to have a deep introspection on the fault-lines in the Kano State chapter of our great party and do all that is necessary by following legal and constitutional means, to redeem our situation. “As always, we pray for Allah’s guidance and protection to you and your able team in your endeavours.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com