Stakeholders in the education sector on Monday urged the Federal Polytechnic, Ado Ekiti to synergise with industries as part of means to rev up its economy and as well positively turn around the fortune of the institution. The stakeholders, who spoke at the opening of a two-day maiden Economic Summit of the institution with the theme, “Motivation, productivity and institutional progress: The challenge of harnessing the potentials of Federal Polytechnic, Ado Ekiti”, said that the school, in view of the importance of polytechnics to any nation’s socio-economic growth and development, must live to it’s billing by being innovative. The Rector, Federal School of Surveying, Oyo, Dr Dupe Olayinka-Dosunmu, who urged FPA to harness the wealth of experience of its professionals by the formation of consultancy outfits to render services to the public, also charged it to step up in the area of applied research, which she said produced usable results. According to her, results of applied research are used for producing goods for basic human necessities thereby improving the quality of life of the citizenry; improving the quality of industrial products, or for solving social and economic problems. Olayinka-Dosunmu also said, “The institution can go into large-scale commercial farming, integrating animal husbandry (piggery, poultry, fish and livestock farming, snail and rabbit keeping). For example, the greater part of the food consumed in Afe Babalola University is produced within the university.”  All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com