The Promoter of Resort Carabana in Uyo, Akwa Ibom State, Mr Nse Essien, has filed a N10m suit against popular Nigeria musician, Duncan Okechukwu, also known as Duncan Mighty, over an alleged breach of contractual agreement. The musician was alleged to have collected the sum of N3m from the promoter to perform as a guest artiste during the grand opening of the resort in Uyo  but failed to show up at the event. In a letter dated January 7, 2022, and addressed to Duncan Mighty by Mr Essien’s Lawyer, Inibehe Effiong, the complainant said the breach of contract caused a lot of mental distress, financial loss, negative business rating, and reputational damage to the organisers after wide publicity of his (Duncan Mighty) presence at the occasion. The lawyer, in addition to the payment for damages, is demanding the refund of the sum of N3m already paid and an unreserved public apology which must be published as a video on his Instagram page. The letter obtained by our correspondent reads in part, “You entered into a contract with our client, under which you accepted our client’s offer to perform as a guest artiste at the grand opening festival of Resorts Carabana held in Uyo on January 2, 2022. “By the mutually agreed terms of the contract, the consideration for your appearance and musical performance at the event was N2,500,000.00 in addition to the sum of N500,000.00 for business class air tickets since you insisted on travelling by air to Uyo with two members of your crew. “Our client dutifully fulfilled his obligations under the contract by paying the sum of N3,000,000.00 in two tranches of N2,000,000.00 and N1,000,000.00 respectively, being the cumulative amount accruable to you for your live performance and flight/travel expenses. “Being a public event, our client embarked on rigorous publicity and spent a significant amount of money on advertorials announcing to the whole world that you, Duncan Mighty, will be performing live at the said event. To the utter consternation and indescribable embarrassment of our client, you failed or refused to attend the well-publicised event. “Our client has further briefed us that neither you nor any member of your team, deemed it pertinent to reach out to our client after defaulting on your contractual obligation. You treated our client with contempt, not minding that our client had publicised your invitation to the event and spent a considerable amount of money in furtherance of the same.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com