The crisis that followed the Ekiti State All Progressives Congress governorship primary has further threatened the party’s efforts to retain power in the state, ABIODUN NEJO writes The protest that erupted on January 27 when the Ekiti State All Progressives Congress held its governorship primary showed that all had not been well with the party. That was the day seven out of the eight aspirants took Ado Ekiti, the Ekiti State capital, by storm as they led their teeming placards-carrying supporters on protest to demand suspension of the exercise, which they alleged had been skewed in favour of the eighth contender, the former Secretary to the state government, Biodun Oyebanji. The seven aggrieved aspirants are National Assembly member, Senator Opeyemi Bamidele; former Minister of Works, Senator Dayo Adeyeye; House of Representatives member, Femi Bamisile; former House of Representatives member, Bamidele Faparusi; former governorship aspirant, Kayode Ojo; aviation expert, Demola Popoola; and Oluwasola Afolabi. Although the campaigns ran by the aspirants and their supporters were devoid of attacks or character assassination, the party was sitting on a keg of gunpower waiting to explode with some unresolved issues in the fold. It is not hidden that there had been problem with the Stakeholders’ Forum initially over the manner the immediate past executives were chosen and lately the conduct of last year’s ward congresses. There is also headache with the South-West Agenda for Asiwaju 2023, a pro-Bola Tinubu presidential support group in the party, considered in some quarters in the Ekiti APC as threat to Ekiti State Governor Kayode Fayemi’s undeclared presidential ambition. Again was the matter of endorsement of the former SSG, Oyebanji, by the governor, which Fayemi later denied that he had no anointed aspirant in the contest. Although the aspirants were not really comfortable with such endorsement, they felt it would make no difference if level-playing ground was given to them, with the belief that the best would emerge in a free, fair and transparent contest devoid of manipulation. Bamidele, speaking after he was successfully screened for the contest, dispelled notions that Fayemi had anointed any aspirant to run for governor. He said, “If it was the wish of our governor to anoint an aspirant, if it was the wish of our party to have an aspirant anointed, they will not be organising or be preparing to hold the party primary; neither will they be asking me to come and spend N22.5m  to buy form. They would have said this is the candidate of the party by consensus.” Bamidele and other aspirants including Adeyeye and Bamisile called for direct primary mode where party members would have opportunity to participate in the choice of the flagbear, saying such would deepen democracy and inclusive participation. Adeyeye, who spoke in Ado Ekiti while declaring his intent to run, had said it would be fatal for the APC to allow imposition of an unpopular individual as candidate in the January 27 primary, saying the best way to democratise the primary and make the outcome acceptable was by adopting direct primary, so that the party could get a popular candidate to face the opposition. He had charged Ekiti people, “Go and make up your mind and vote for me during the primary, you will not regret it. My reason for this governorship ambition is based on my vision to serve Ekiti and fight the scourge of poverty and unemployment in their ranks”. Also, the three aspirants from the South Senatorial District – Adeyeye, Bamisile and Faparusi – agreed on emergence of the candidate from their district in the name of justice and equity since the South had not produced governor sine creation of Ekiti State in 1996. Bamisile said, “The issue of zoning can’t be downplayed, having assumed a national dimension. I want to appeal to you party leaders to listen to us on this issue of zoning. I listened to Governor Fayemi when he said that all the eight of us contesting for governorship are capable to govern Ekiti State. “We are not asking anybody to impose anyone, but you must be fair to the South, what is fair is fair. I am optimistic that one of the three aspirants from the South will win the APC primary, but peradventure anyone emerges that is not from the South, that will be bye bye to APC in Ekiti.” From Badaru, it’s Assurance Galore When Jigawa State Governor and Chairman, APC Primary Election Committee for Ekiti State, Abubakar Badaru, and his committee members arrived the state on Wednesday preparatory to the Thursday exercise, it was assurance galore that the primary would be free and fair and that no aspirant would be cheated. Badaru, who spoke during a meeting with stakeholders and aspirants, said the committee had got instruction to use Option A4 Direct Primary mode, assuring that nothing would stop his resolve to organise a primary that would be acceptable to all aspirants. The committee chairman assured at the meeting where seven of the eight aspirants were in attendance that security would be made available across the 177 wards to safeguard the lives of voters and ensure the exercise was hitch-free. He said the APC members and INEC voter cards would be used for accreditation, while members would later queue behind the agents of their preferred aspirants in each ward for counting, adding, “I have my integrity to protect just like every other member of this committee. Nobody will be cheated”. Badaru directed each aspirant to nominate 20 persons that would work with the committee as local organising committee in the collation and transmission of results. Earlier, he said police and the Independent National Electoral Commission had assured of their readiness for the exercise, saying, “The Commissioner of Police assured that he has adequate arrangement to secure all venues of the primaries”. How Cookies Crumbled However, the seven aggrieved aspirants who protested that Thursday morning alleged that members of Local Government Electoral Committee and those of ward electoral committees who were to serve as electoral officers for the exercise, were supporters and backers of Oyebanji. With their supporters carrying placards with various inscriptions, they stormed the state APC secretariat before they moved to the state headquarters of the Nigeria Police, INEC and the Department of State Services to air their grievances. Bamidele, who spoke on behalf of other contestants, said the committee should not take any step that would embarrass APC, saying, “They shouldn’t embarrass APC with this conduct. We want the committee to stop the process. They have made the result sheets available to Biodun Oyebanji’s supporters to write the results. “It was also embarrassing and unfortunate that only the government appointees and those loyal to the Governor Fayemi and Oyebanji were appointed as electoral officers. The outcome of this election is predetermined. We want the process cancelled because we don’t want the committee to embarrass our party by forcing us to confront them in the court,” he said. But Oyebanji, who said that elections held and that the process was free, fair and transparent based on report from different wards and units, said that the APC appeal panel would handle any controversial issue surrounding the conduct of the election. The former SSG said, “The guidelines of our party give room for the constitution of appeal committee to attend to whatever grievances anyone has. They have the right to their opinions, but the party will come up with its position on whatever they say”. Later on Thursday evening, Badaru announced the result of the primary election and returned Oyebanji as the candidate having scored 101,703 votes while Ojo, got 767 votes; Bamidele, scored 760 votes; Adeyeye secured 691 votes; Bamisile scored 400 votes; Faparusi garnered 376 votes; Popoola got 239 votes; and Afolabi scored 47 votes. However, the aggrieved aspirants said the results were fabricated to suit the purpose of the Fayemi government by the Badaru committee. Adeyeye, who said results for the primary, which he said did not hold, had been concocted before the day, added that he was still consulting with his people on the next line of action following the protest embarked upon by seven aggrieved aspirants. He said, “I am consulting, I am getting my people together to brainstorm and see what they think. I am in that process. It is going on fine. There was no election, they just concocted results among themselves. All the people that conducted the election were members of Oyebanji’s campaign team. We have the list. That was the basis of our petition. “On Wednesday, we complained to Governor Badaru that there was no way all the electoral officers could be members of Oyebanji’s campaign team, he said each of the seven of us should bring 20 names to make 140 whereas Oyebanji’s team had 531 names.  And he did not use any of the names we brought, he just stuck by that list that Oyebanji team had done”. On his part, Bamidele said that the alleged abrasion of democracy in the Ekiti APC primary election would be subjected to legal scrutiny, insisting that no election was held on January 27 and that the figures reeled out by the Badaru Committee were allegedly fabricated. Bamidele said it was unfortunate and regrettable that the process of conducting the primary was “hijacked, truncated, compromised and bastardised by those at the helm of affairs in Ekiti”, which he said was tantamount to a complete abuse of trust and leadership. Also, Ojo called on the party’s national leadership and the Presidency to wade into the primaries and conduct a legitimate exercise to replace what he called a fraud that allegedly happened in the state on Thursday. Ojo said, “I can confirm to you that the APC has no legal and credible candidate in Ekiti. From the results, you can attest to the fact that those figures were fake and concocted by the elections committees to suit their purpose.” Picking the Pieces However, Badaru, who said his committee did the right thing in Ekiti, expressed confidence that the seven aggrieved aspirants would be reconciled and made to work for the party’s success in the June 18 governorship election. He said that his Ekiti State counterpart, Fayemi, would reach out to the aggrieved aspirants, adding, “I would reach out to some of them to clear their minds that all those allegations that were going out are wrong and prove to them with video evidences that we did the right thing. “I don’t think there is any reason (for the aggrieved aspirants) to go to court. They are experienced politicians, people of proven integrity and they know that the party comes first. I am sure they would respect what we have done and they will come together, work with us to deliver Ekiti State to the APC”. Oyebanji sought support of the aggrieved aspirants to ensure the party won the June 18 governorship election and continue with the APC development agenda. In his acceptance speech, the APC candidate told the aspirants, “I humbly ask for your support as we begin the task of campaigning for the June 18, 2022 general election. We have a huge mission ahead of us to retain the governance of our dear state under our great party and to ensure the continuity of our progressive programmes and policies as established by our leaders.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com