The campaign organisation of a chairmanship aspirant of the All Progressives Congress, Senator Sani Musa, on Thursday welcomed the new date announced by the party’s Caretaker/Extra-Ordinary National Convention Planning Committee for the conduct of the zonal and national convention of the party. In a statement made available to The PUNCH, the organisation commended the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), for not taking sides with any of the aspirants and his insistence on the use of consensus in the election of national officers in the national convention. The statement read, “By this pronouncement, Mr President has upheld the foundation of the All Progressives Congress’ constitution of participative democracy, consensus-oriented, equity and inclusiveness. “Furthermore, Article 20 (i) (a) of the APC Constitution also gives room for the emergence of candidates through consensus with a proviso that ‘a vote of yes or no should be called to ensure that it was not an imposition which could breach discontent and crisis.’ “The consensus process has since been adopted to elect national officers and members of the executive and national working committee of the APC in 2014 and in 2018 respectively. This procedure has helped the party in aggregating interests; ensuring the input of every participant is carefully considered and there is a good faith effort to address all legitimate concerns.” Meanwhile, Musa has unveiled strategies he will adopt to reposition the ruling party, if elected at the March 26 national convention. According to his blueprint made available to The PUNCH on Thursday, the aspirant intends to introduce for the party a positive feature plan to be known as ‘APC Constituent Relationship Management Solution.’ The document described the plan as “a unique and cost effective means with features ranging from conflict resolutions to management of constituents, supporters, volunteers, workers, members, voters and constituencies.” The document also stated that Musa’s approach would be to genuinely empower the APC workforce and build a strong network between the party and constituents in accordance with the constitution and all laid down guidelines. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com