Gunmen on Thursday attacked Okomu Oil Palm Company in the Ovia South West Local Government Area of Edo State, a day after two suspects were paraded by the state police command over their involvement in the February 1 attack. Two company workers were killed in the attack and 90 hectares of rubber and three excavators burnt. The company’s Communication Officer, Fidelis Olise, who disclosed this on Friday, said the gunmen also attacked workers on Tuesday making it two attacks in three days. Olise stated that the gunmen, who he described as terrorists, carried out the latest attacks in retaliation of the arrest of two of their suspected members. He said, “The same terrorists, seemingly angered by the arrest of two of their supposed members, carried out further attacks on innocent workers on the Okomu Oil Palm Company’s property to avenge the arrest of their accomplices who apparently confessed to the theft of rubber. “They were arrested by the marine police on a boat after it had left the Okomu Ijaw Community on its way to Delta State. The killing of innocent workers, who are performing their legitimate duties and have no conflict or disagreement with anyone, is strongly condemned and the powers that be should immediately take action against those terrorists responsible for the murderous crimes. “Attacks on companies like Okomu are also a serious note for concern as it seems that terrorists are now focusing on these types of establishments, intent on bringing them to their knees, and in so doing creating an environment that could portray the Governor Godwin Obaseki-led government as weak.” Olise also said the attacks posed a great threat to current and future investments in Edo State and Nigeria as a whole, especially the agricultural sector, which is the focal point of diversification of both the state and federal governments. He added, “The police must immediately undertake a thorough investigation and bring all those linked to the heinous attacks to book.’’ Copyright PUNCH All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com