The Independent National Electoral Commission says a total of 1322 ad-hoc staff have been trained in readiness for elections in the Kuje Council of the Federal Capital Territory. The INEC Electoral Officer, Mrs Zainab Gbefwi, disclosed this in an interview with NAN in Kuje, after the training exercise that lasted for three days in the area. Gbefwi said the exercise was without any challenge, adding that the commission was prepared for the February 12 elections in the six area councils of the FCT. The electoral officers said participants in the exercise included presiding officers, assistant presiding officers, and corps members. She said the commission would deploy all necessary human, material, and managerial resources to ensure that the election remained free fair, credible, peaceful inclusive, and transparent. “The training is the last thing we have to do before the election and the next thing is to post the officers to their various polling units within the council. “By virtue of the Electoral Act and the 1999 Constitution, it is the responsibility of the citizens to obtain their permanent voter cards and vote for candidates of their choice. “The call is imperative because apart from increasing the voting strength in elections, it is the only tool the electorate can use to choose their leaders,” she said. The electoral officer, who expressed confidence in the measures so far put in place by the commission, assured that the exercise would be smooth as planned for the elections in the area. However, she urged all candidates, supporters, and electorate to ensure they observed COVID-19 safety protocols at polling units at the elections. She also appealed to the candidates and their supporters to desist from any form of electoral malpractice to enable smooth and credible elections for the development of democracy in the country. NAN Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com