The Peoples Democratic Party has accused the All Progressives Congress of engaging in vote-buying during Saturday’s state Assembly by-election in the Ngor Okpala Local Government Area of Imo State. The PDP also accused the ruling party of intimidating and kidnapping its agents in various polling units. As of 2pm, the PDP candidate in the election, Jeff Nwachukwu, had yet to cast his vote. When contacted by our correspondent, Nwachukwu said police Armoured Personnel Carriers and security agents had surrendered his house. Nwachukwu also said one of the PDP agents in Umuneke Ngor had been kidnapped and taken to an unknown destination. The Director-General of New Media of the PDP in the state, Collins Opuruzor, said government officials were going about buying votes and intimidating voters at various polling centres. Opuruzor also accused the government of importing thugs and besieging the area with security operatives. He accused the APC of snatching ballot boxes and staff members of the independent National Electoral Commission of not coming with collation sheets in the strongholds of the PDP. But the state Publicity Secretary of the APC, Cajetan Duke, said having known that it would not win, the PDP had resorted to vote-buying and snatching of ballot boxes. Duke said that PDP was very unpopular in the area, hence it had perfected plans to rig the process but the voters were resisting it. APC candidate chased out of Ondo polling unit over alleged vote-buying There was drama at the Gbogi/Isinkan Ward 3, Unit 14 in the Akure South Local Government Area of Ondo State on Saturday as the candidate of the All Progressives Congress in the Akure North/Akure South Federal Constituency by-election, Mr Mayokun Alade, was allegedly chased out of the polling unit. It was gathered that the APC candidate was sighted from a distance allegedly giving money to some people to vote for him. “Immediately the people saw him trying to share money, they mobilised against him. Security agents and some APC leaders whisked him out of the area,” an eyewitness said. Alade, however, denied the allegation, claiming to have left the unit after casting his vote. “The people spotted me in white and hailed me and were trying to hug me. I did not give anybody money to vote for me,” he stated. Meanwhile, the election was marred by irregularities and some actions in contravention of the Electoral Act. One of our correspondents, who visited some of the polling units, observed that few people were in the queue to perform their civic responsibility. At some units it was gathered that members of the two major political parties, the APC and the PDP, were wooing voters with money. A source said the money shared was between N3,000 and N5,000. “We collected N3,000 from the APC and N2,000 from the PDP; the two parties gave us money but I voted for the person I wanted,” a voter told Sunday PUNCH. Ondo deputy gov accused of vote-buying In a related development, some voters at the Ward 9, Unit 3, Oba Ile in the Akure North Local Government Area of Ondo State, on Saturday, protested against the presence of the Deputy Governor, Mr Lucky Aiyedatiwa, at the polling unit. The election was conducted to fill the vacant seat in the federal constituency after the demise of the former representative, Adedayo Omolafe, who died last year. The deputy governor, who was sighted by one of our correspondents at the polling unit in a black Mercedes G-Wagon with covered number plate and tinted glasses, was accused by some of the voters of sharing money. A female voter said she and other voters would not allow anyone to snatch the ballot box. “We saw him (deputy governor) coming to share money; let them share any amount, he will fail. This is a PDP unit; we won’t allow them to snatch any ballot box,” she stated. However, Aiyedatiwa, in a telephone conversation with Sunday PUNCH, denied the allegation, describing it as untrue. He said, “It is not true. How can I go around distributing money? What is my own with that? Anyone that says so should bring evidence where they saw me distributing money. “I live outside the Government House. I live among the people, so I don’t live in the Government House for now. So, if anybody says they saw me, it may be around my area. I don’t understand what they are saying.” An APC chieftain and former Commissioner for Works, Mr Saka Yusuf-Ogunleye, confirmed the presence of the deputy governor, but said he did not distribute money to anyone. Yusuf-Ogunleye stated, “This is not his ward; he is from the South (senatorial district). But as a senior citizen, he came to monitor the situation. How can he be distributing money?  He only came here to ask me questions and I told him that the election has been peaceful. “The allegation that the APC tried to snatch ballot boxes is not true. Those making the claim are only insinuating. Are they afraid? It is a free and fair election; we will not create any crisis.” Meanwhile, there was an impressive turnout of voters in the Akpabuyo State Constituency by-election in Cross River on Saturday. One of our correspondents who visited some of the polling stations observed that the exercise was peaceful as accreditation and voting took place simultaneously at about 9am. At Esuk Idebe polling unit, a governorship aspirant on the platform of the All Progressives Congress, Bassey Ndem, voted after which he expressed satisfaction with the polls. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com