SUPPORTERS of Vice President Yemi Osinbajo under the aegis of Businessmen For Osinbajo have vowed to buy the nomination form of the All Progressives Congress for him to contest the 2023 presidential election. The conveners of BFO, Dr Tayo Fashogbon and Olatunji Davies, made the pledge during the inauguration of the group attended by prominent businessmen in Abuja on Wednesday night. According to them, the businessmen were wooing Osinbajo into the presidential race for continuity of the laudable projects and programmes of the regime of the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.). Fashogbon said even though Osinbajo was yet to declare his interest in the presidency, BFO was putting structures in place to ensure that he emerged the next president of Nigeria “because he is competent, versatile and knowledgeable of the dynamics of the Nigerian business environment and the global economy.” He said Osinbajo has not declared his presidential ambition because as a legal icon, he was aware that the Independent National Electoral Commission has not lifted the ban on electioneering and would therefore not jump the gun. Fashogbon said the BFO resolved to go ahead with its inauguration for strategic planning and coordination of its activities. He said, “I stand here to welcome you on this journey towards an elevated Nigeria. This elevation will be brought about by more intentional participation of the business community in the democracy of Nigeria. “Until now, the business community, with all its great contributions, has only remained on the fringes of political relevance. This has continued to limit our capacity to influence the ease and outcomes of doing business. “Our group called the Businessmen for Osinbajo is officially launched as a first major step to change the narrative. BFO is an independent group of volunteers from every sector and size of business, across the 36 states of the federation and the Federal Capital Territory. The mandate is simple: to deliver the incoming President come 2023, Prof Oluyemi Osinbajo. “As the right leader for the business community, he (Osinbajo) has demonstrated passion for strengthening the economy by improving the ease of doing business at all levels.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com