The Commander-General, Harmonised Vigilante Group, Ridwan Hussein, has urged Osun State Governor, Adegboyega Oyetola, to intervene and end killings and other criminal activities in Ede. The town has lately come under a series of attacks, which resulted in loss of lives and destruction of property. One Rasidi Oko’lu has been declared wanted by the police in connection with killings in the town. Speaking to journalists in Ede on Saturday, Hussein, also known as Yah Salam, lamented the activities of criminals in the community, and advised all stakeholders to unite and prevent the escalation of the current crisis. On steps that must be taken to curb killings in the town, Hussein, who noted that members of his group were not involved in criminal acts, said those behind the current mayhem must be identified and dealt with. He stated, “I also support the suggestion made by our father, Timi of Ede, that the government at both local and state levels in Osun State should call an urgent security meeting in Ede in collaboration with other relevant stakeholders. “If this will bring back sanity to our community, I am in support of it 100 per cent. “We must do everything possible to cut the wings of the perpetrators of this act of lawlessness in Ede land. They must be arrested and brought to justice with immediate effect. “It is high time we stopped the mayhem in Ede land. It is high time we said no to cultism in Ede land. It is high time we said no to gangsterism In Ede land. It is high time we embraced peace in Ede land. “It is high time we waged a total war on area boys and hoodlums disturbing the peace of Ede, our beautiful heritage, the peaceful home of the legendary Timi Olofa Ina. I totally condemn the present state of lawlessness in Ede and its environs.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com