Osun State workers, under the State of Osun Joint Labour Movement, have written to Governor Adegboyega Oyetola to demand the payment of salary and pension arrears. The letter dated February 7, 2022, and co-signed by the Chairman of the Joint Negotiating Council, Bayo Adejumo; Chairman, Nigeria Labour Congress, Jacob Adekomi; and Chairman, Trade Union Congress, Adekola Adebowale, was obtained on Tuesday. The labour movement also demanded the payment of four months’ cooperative deductions, which formed part of the monthly salaries of some categories of workers for the month of June 2019, April, May and June 2020. The demands also include giving financial effect to workers’ promotions starting from November 1, 2021, and the implementation of nominal promotions and conversion. The letter read in part, “The movement notes with concern the non-payment of cooperative deductions of monthly salaries, which form part of the monthly salaries of the affected workers for the month of June 2019, April, May and June 2020. “The immediate payment of the deductions shall be appreciated. It is worthy of note that the government, through the attached circular, agreed to implement nominal promotions for 2019 and 2020 as contained in paragraph 2 of the same, yet up till now, the issue has not seen the light of the day. “In view of this, the joint labour movement hereby call for the immediate release of a circular for the implementation of the nominal promotions and conversion spanning 2019-2021. “Workers and pensioners in the state have been noted by the joint labour movement to be extraordinarily resilient, having endured the non-payment of outstanding arrears of salaries and pensions, which this government has agreed to commence the defrayment with effect from November 1, 2021 as contained in the attached circular.” The labour movement said that implementation of other welfare packages and commencement of the payment of arrears of salaries and pension would further guarantee and sustain the industrial harmony in the state. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com