Former President, Olusegun Obasanjo, and the Convener, Northern Elders Forum, Prof. Ango Abdullahi, have met to deliberate on issues bordering on Nigeria’s wellbeing, and also strategise on the success and possible outcome of the 2023 general elections. This was contained in a statement by Obasanjo’s Special Assistant on Media, Kehinde Akinyemi, titled, ‘2023: Ango Abdullahi meets Obasanjo says “We must strategize for the good of Nigeria”, on Wednesday. The statement quoted Abdullahi to have said that the country needed good tidings from the 2023 elections, hence the need to strategise, during the meeting with Obasanjo in Abeokuta on Tuesday evening. Accompanied by the Chairman, Board of Trustees, Coalition of Northern Groups, Nastura Ashir Shariff, and the group’s Director, Action and Mobilisation, Aminu Adam, Abdullahi said they were on the same page with the former president on issues discussed during the meeting that lasted two hours. He stressed that in spite of their ages, they could still contribute to the society and the country, hence, “my coming to see him. I don’t want to stay away from him for so many months or years without seeing him, especially at this period. “So, I’m visiting him to say hello and get a briefing from him on how I feel about the nation. We also briefed him on how we feel about the nation. We compare some notes and we agreed on some grounds.” Asked specifically if they were on same page with the host on those issues raised, the erudite scholar, responded swiftly, saying, “Yes. We are on same page and Insha Allah it shall be well. “We have been having challenges and we have been talking on this. You are in the media and you know what we have been saying about the situation in the country. Things are not good enough and as we head for 2023, we hope to be strategizing for the good of the nation.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com