CHIMA AZUBUIKE writes that the crisis caused by the alleged exclusion of  some transport workers in Gombe State from  the Federal Government’s COVID-19 fund has refused to fade out THE Federal Government extended the COVID-19 survival fund to transport sector operators, including members of the National Union of Road Transport Workers, the Road Transport Employers Association of Nigeria  and other unions in the sector. The scheme, under the Federal Government’s Micro Small and Medium Enterprises Survival Fund,  was part of the Nigerian Economic Sustainability Plan,  designed to support  small business operators, who were more vulnerable to the effect of COVID-19. The scheme is estimated to save not less than 1.3 million jobs across the country and specifically impacted over 35,000 individuals per state. Vice President Yemi Osinbajo explained that there would be 9,009 beneficiaries per state for artisan and transport beneficiaries. Before accessing the funds, beneficiaries were  supposed to show their proof of membership of an association to be enumerated. The grant is expected to be paid directly to the beneficiary’s account. Our correspondent recently visited various motor parks in the three senatorial districts namely; Tashan Dadinkowa (Gombe Central), Tashan Bauchi, Tashan Dukku, Nafada (Gombe North)  and Tashan Billiri (Gombe South). A former Chairman of the Road Transport Employers Association of Nigeria Billiri Chapel, Bala Maikudi, was one of the lucky few who got paid. Billiri is located  in Gombe South senatorial district. “We were given three forms each for 20 people. Ordinarily, it should be 60 in total, but we had three spaces unoccupied. So,  57 persons filled the form. “However, based on available reports, only 6 or 7 people have got their initial N30,000. I was part of the seven persons who got paid  on the 14th of June, 2021,” he said. The current chairman of RTEAN Billiri Chapel, Hassan Gambo, is one of the few still expectant about his share, Unlike his predecessor, Gambo said he had not stopped hoping. “Government should do something about ensuring that we get paid. But for now, they have not paid us yet. I filled in my form. If I get this money, you should know that I will buy rice and beans, which is my problem now. The problem in this country is food,” he stated. Also, the Secretary Gombe Line Mass Transit, Billiri branch, Habu Yakubu,  lamented the delay in benefiting from the N30,000 survival fund. He stressed the impact of the economic situation, adding that although he didn’t have a bus for operation, he would use the money when received for upkeep. “About 30 people were registered here, but only four people got the alert. I was one of those that registered, but I have yet to get an alert. We are in a critical situation economically, and the money will go a long way,” he said. On his part, the Chairman of Load and offloading Billiri Local Government Area, Ezekiel Danjija said, “The forms were shared. Billiri Local Government got seven forms in total, and four was given to me to share amongst our unit. “Out of the seven people that registered, four persons got paid, and three others have yet to receive an alert. But we got for just one month each. When I reported the issue to the state chairman about the few that got, including me, he said ours was better than some LGAs.” Gombe North-Tashan Bauchi, Dukku Twenty-three -year old, Idris Yusuf, a driver at the Bauchi Park, said he registered but had not received the money promised by government, adding, “I have not received the N30,000 survival fund. I applied but I have yet to receive the alert.” Also, a former branch secretary Tashan Bauchi park, Adamu Mohammed,  said, “I also got registered. I registered about three times. If I ask, no one has deemed it fit to tell me anything. The people in charge will not want small people like us to benefit from the money.” Fifty-two-year-old Mohammed said that the money would help solve immediate needs, considering the harsh economic situation. At Tashan Dukku branch chairman, Bapayo Akwuya declined to comment as he barred our correspondent from speaking with beneficiaries. Akwuya said, “Until I get permission, I can’t respond to your questions. You should speak with our state secretary.” A union member at the Dukku Park, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said the forms were shared among union chairman and his loyalists. Gombe Central-Tashan Dadinkowa Seventy-two-year-old driver Umaru Adamu Adamu, who operates from the Tashan Dadinkowa in Gombe Central lamented how he waited endlessly for the money to be paid. Visibly unhappy, Adamu narrated, “I have an account that functions. I have about N9,000 in that account, but they claimed that they had an issue with my account.” Over 400 out of 900 have yet to receive- NURTW state chairman As of  July 30, Ibrahim Bala, Gombe State Chairman of the National Union of Road Transport Workers  lamented the hiccups that bedevilled the scheme. The Gombe NURTW boss, who finally spoke to our correspondent through telephone after series of attempts, said some members received N30,000. He said, “Some people have yet to get their own money. I may not give you the exact figure, but I think we have over 900 members captured in our union. We have over 400 that have yet to receive.” While explaining the processes of selection of beneficiaries, Bala debunked insinuations that forms were shared among friends. He said that forms were shared across 11 local government areas of Gombe State. “We selected based on local governments.  Under National Union we have 42 branches, and we divided it according to our branches, and the state has 11 LGA’s we have 42 branches. “We shared it according to the branches that we have after sharing they came to our secretariat for capturing, and we sent it through our headquarters, after that there was verification we had over 900 beneficiaries in the state that were verified,” Bala added. Danjuma Sarkina, an operator in Nafada Local Government Area, lamented what he termed failure of his branch to include him in the process. “I was here when they brought the forms, but they refused to give me. I only heard some of them saying they received, but since I was not included from the beginning, there is no hope.” Sallau Badanasi, secretary of Okada Owners and Riders Association, confirmed to our correspondent that the union received a slot of about 600 across the 11 local government areas. Badamasi said that the distribution was done by the former executives of the union while failing to mention the list of the beneficiaries. “Over 600 persons or thereabout were captured according to Alhassan Dukku, the former state chairman of our association, but he is not certain about the number that got paid,” Badamasi added. We have paid 4,457- Gombe focal person The state Focal Person for Transportation Track scheme, Ahmed  Husaini, revealed that out of 4,500 allocated to Gombe state, 4,457 beneficiaries had been paid, with 43 outstanding. Husaini stated, “For the transport track, the number allocated to Gombe State was 4,500 but based on the data they sent us from the national office, they made payment to 4,457 beneficiaries. Only 43 were not paid based on last week data sent to me.” “There was no form to be filled. What the national office did at the federal level was to meet the leadership of the transport unions at the national level. They met with them at the national level and directed them to meet with us at the state level. “We submitted the same list that we collected from them to the national office, and then the national office sent down their aggregate to their enumerators down to Gombe State and enumerated the people and get them paid. We also sent it separately to the national office; they did that to double-check that nobody at the state level was able to temper with the list those agencies submitted to them at the state level.” Husaini decried insinuations that the process was compromised in the state and observing that no state official decided the beneficiaries to be included. “So, to the best of my knowledge, there is no political interference of any kind. At no point did any government official, either Chief of Staff to the Governor or anybody, contact me to lobby for anybody to be included in that list. “National office on their part identified some stakeholders at the political level at the national level, and they allocated some slots to them. That is normal, it happens, but the state government was not even factored in as one of the stakeholders because they did their stakeholders assessment at the national,” Husaini added. Some union members forced enumerators to factor them in, shooting the number to 6,000, says Gombe State Focal Person. He said, “They should verify through the association. They should ask the association to check. All the unions would have noticed any alteration or removal when the list was sent back to them, but they didn’t do that because that list was completed a hundred per cent before it was sent. “So, if they have any issue, there is a number they can call. But what I know is that a lot of people are not honest with themselves. One will send enumerators to some local governments; they enumerated them even while their names are not on the list. “At the end of the enumeration, we found that we have over enumerated. Instead of 4,500, we enumerated about 6,000 or thereabout, I was informed that some forced themselves to be enumerated, thinking that one will automatically be paid once that person is listed.” Gombe government’s response Based on investigations conducted by our correspondent from the various parks visited, 479 persons who were captured have yet to be paid. The  state Commissioner for Works and Transportation, Abubakar Bappah, said he did not know much about the scheme. “I know little or nothing about the survival fund project for transporters. So, I can’t say anything. But go to Gombe Line and see the Managing Director,” Bappah said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com