Timi of Ede, Oba Adesola Lawal, on Thursday blamed insecurity in his domain on activities of vigilante groups, members of Oodua Peoples Congress and cultists. The traditional head of the Ede township in Osun State then called on the state government and security agencies to intervene and ensure maximum protection for lives and property. Speaking to newsmen in his palace, Oba Lawal, who described the security situation in Ede as pathetic and unbearable, said it has degenerated to a level that all residents were vulnerable to attack. He said, “I want to say with emphasis that the OPC, Ya-Salam Vigilante and the cultists are those that are terrorising Ede Community now. I am, therefore, appealing to the governments, the security agents and the general public to call on these notorious people to allow peace to reign. “The security situation of Ede today is pathetic and unbearable. It has degenerated to a level where everybody is vulnerable to attack and injuries. “The community members are being threatened physically, psychologically, emotionally and economically. Nobody can sleep with his or her eyes closed Presently in Ede, the sun sets at dawn. “It is, therefore, very imperative that the governments and other security stakeholders should swing into action by quick intervention to avoid further loss of life and property. It is very uncultured to see human blood flowing in the daylight. Life has no meaning to these intoxicated bloodsuckers. “I have never given supportive assistance to any of the dissidents. The warring groups are mandated to sheath their swords and allow peace to reign in Ede and its environment.” When contacted for reaction, the leader of Vigilantee Group, Alhaji Rilwan Yahsalam, denied alleged involvement in the crises rocking the town and called on security agents not to take side with any of the parties involved. He said, “Whenever we arrest criminals, some people would use court to free them. When these criminals regain freedom, they will just descend on my members. I am not involved in attack on anyone.” Also reacting, the Osun State OPC Coordinator, Deji Aladesawe, said his men were not involved in the crises in Ede community, saying a cultist, Rasidi Oko’lu, was the one killing people in the town and not members of his group. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com