The Peoples Democratic Party has cautioned Zamfara State Governor, Bello Matawalle, to refrain from allegedly manipulating the State House of Assembly to commence impeachment process against his deputy, Mohammed Gusau. The main opposition party made the call in statement on Saturday signed by its National Publicity Secretary, Debo Ologunagba, and titled, ‘PDP Cautions Matawalle Over Impeachment Misadventure’. The party accused the governor of “stoking and inducing violence in the state by orchestrating and manipulating the State House of Assembly to commence an illegal and undemocratic process of impeachment against the democratically elected Deputy Governor”. The PDP also called on the President, Major General, Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), and All Progressives Congress to immediately call Matawalle to order and ensure there is no assault on democracy in Zamfara state. According to the party, Matawalle must be held responsible for any breakdown of law and order which can result to bloodshed in Zamfara State for which he can also be personally held liable even beyond the shores of Nigeria as the world is watching. The statement read, “This illegal process of impeachment despite a subsisting order of the Federal High Court, Abuja in suit number FHC/ABJ/CS/ 650/2021 portends grave implication for peace and security not only in Zamfara State but the entire North West region as well as the continued sustenance of democracy in our country. “It is clear that this panic move by Governor Matawalle is induced by his realization that the mandate of the PDP which he stole away into the APC is at the verge of being recovered through the legal processes of the court and restored to the Deputy Governor; he (Matawalle), having violated the provisions of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria 1999 (as amended) in recklessly moving to the APC when there is no division in the PDP. “Governor Matawalle should note that the people of Zamfara State are solidly with the Deputy Governor, who enjoys large political following in the State as the custodian of the PDP mandate after Matawalle’s infamous defection to the APC. As such, any action against the Deputy Governor amounts to a direct assault on the Will of the people which they will firmly resist. “Any attempt therefore to strip the Deputy Governor of the mandate of the people on the grounds of baseless and unfounded allegations is a recipe for serious crisis that can result in the complete breakdown of law and order in the State. “The State House of Assembly is therefore cautioned not to allow itself to be pitched against the people and destroy the State because of the bloated ego of Governor Matawalle whose political career is at its twilight. “Governor Matawalle must know that the people of Zamfara State cannot allow his personal frustration and ego to be exchanged for their mandate which is now embodied in the Deputy Governor.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com