A Non-governmental Organisation, The Right to Education Coalition, has appealed to the Speaker of the House of Representatives, Mr Femi Gbajabiamila, to pass the Universal Basic Education Act amendment bill before the 2023 elections. A statement by the NGO said the delay in the passage of the UBE Act amendment bill by the House of Representatives was a factor contributing to the growing number of out-of-school children across Nigeria. It explained that the bill sought to provide a legal framework for free, compulsory, safe, and quality education up to 12 years, ensure an increase in basic education financing and promote gender-responsive learning, among others. “The bill has been at the committee stage at the House of Representatives since December 2020, despite the myriad of political promises and statements, advocacies, and pressure from civil societies and international development organisations. “As Nigeria prepares for the 2023 election cycle, the Femi Gbajabiamila-led House of Representatives needs to treat basic education as an inalienable right of all Nigerian children and provide the necessary legislative and political support to achieve the country’s developmental goals through education. Every child deserves 12 years of free education. “With growing public interest in socio-political activities, Nigerians are tired of unfulfilled political promises of free, compulsory, quality, and safe education. The House of Representatives and other public office seekers must note that the quest for education will play a critical role in the 2023 decision-making process of many Nigerians. “We implore the ninth House of Representatives under the leadership of Rt. Hon. Femi Gbajabiamila to make the passage of the Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com