FORMER Wimbledon star, John Fashanu, believes Nigeria international Wilfred Ndidi deserves to be Leicester City’s highest earner following to his contributions to the club since he joined from Genk in 2017, PUNCH Sports Extra reports. Ndidi has been an integral part of the Foxes and played a key role en route to their FA Cup victory last season, where they defeated Chelsea 1-0 at Wembley. The Nigeria international is currently in his sixth year at the King Power Stadium, with 201 appearances in all competitions. The enhanced status of the midfielder, who is currently valued at €60m, has made him one of the most sought after players, with Manchester United and Aston Villa reportedly interested in securing his service next season. Meanwhile, according to Football Insider, the Foxes are eager to agree to a new long-term contract with the player to ward off interests from his suitors. Ndidi currently earns £75,000 a week, below what Johnny Evans, James Maddison and Kasper Schmeichel earn at the club. However, speaking with PUNCH Sports Extra, Fashanu believes Ndidi should be the club’s highest-paid player. “The reason why we are playing football is not just for fun but it has become a way of life and it is  business,” Fashanu told PUNCH Sports Extra. “Ndidi should be having the best of salary because he deserves it. The likes of Messi, the great Pele, Maradona and Justin Fashanu were all the best players at their clubs during their time and they had the biggest salaries. “It becomes worrying when people are offering smaller wages to their best player and that tosses me back to slavery. I hope Ndidi’s case is not going to be like that because he deserves it looking at his importance to the club in the last few years.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com