The call by the kinsmen of Governor Okezie Ikpeazu for the next governor of Abia State to come from their area has been described as perpetuation of injustice and political exclusion. A civil society organization, Abia Civil Society Network on Equity and Justice, expressed this concern in Umuahia while addressing newsmen, describing this situation as “self-succession at its best.” The organization said, “Our attention has been drawn to a thickening plot to perpetuate injustice and political exclusion in Abia State with an unheard of arrangement aimed at keeping a zone in office as governor in what could be described as self-succession at its best.” It noted that from creation, “no part of Abia has been marginalized to warrant an unhealthy machination such that alters the existing doctrine of power rotation known as charter of equity. “From what is evident within the polity, including from moves and consultations by some gladiators whose senatorial zones have either previously had a stint or are currently doing their tenure, we are sensing the plot to deny the people of Abia North their turn at the governorship seat in the state, even when it is their (Abia North) turn legitimately. “The essence of sticking to the Abia charter of equity is to stop jockeying for power in a Machiavellian way to end dog eat dog politics and to create a sense of equity and evenness among Abians,” the group noted. Speaking on behalf of ACSNEJ, the convener, Damian Ogudike said that going by the provisions of the Abia charter of equity, and with all the zones having done eight years each, starting with Abia North,  Abia Central and South, the governorship position should rotate to the North again, adding “it is our conviction that there is nothing wrong with an Ngwa son or daughter doing the turn of Abia Central, come 2031 when power returns to  that zone (Central). “Should any political party field a candidate from other zones than Abia North, the coalition has vowed to mobilize all faith-based NGOs to throw such candidates away and campaign against the party in the state,’’ he stated. Meanwhile, the All Progressives Congress in the state has alleged that some individuals have concluded plans to destroy the party in the state. The state Deputy Chairman of the party, Goldie Nwagbara, and other stakeholders asserted this during an enlarged meeting of stakeholders and notable stalwarts of the party in Umuahia attended by the executive committees of the party at the ward, local government, zonal and state levels to reaffirm their loyalty to the Acho Obioma-led executive in the state. Speaking at the meeting, Nwagbara stated, “What happened is that some people wanted to destroy the party in Abia but God won’t allow it. It is good and a test of our faith and commitment to this leadership.’’ Copyright PUNCH All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com