The Lagos State Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, has said the bills transmitting the Lagos State Polytechnic and the two Colleges of Education to universities will be taken to the National Universities Commission for approval next week. Sanwo-Olu said this on Wednesday while signing the bills transmitting Lagos State Polytechnic in Ikorodu, Isolo and Surulere campuses to the University of Science and Technology as well as Adeniran Ogunsanya Colleges of Education, Ijanikin and Michael Otedola College of Primary Education, Epe to Lagos State University of Education said Lagos and its indigenes were now blessed with two additional universities to the existing Lagos State University. The signing ceremony, which took place at the Lagos House, Marina, was witnessed by the Special Adviser to the Governor on Education, Tokunbo Wahab, and the Commissioner for Justice and Attorney-General, Moyosore Onigbanjo (SAN), members of the Governing Councils and management staff of the tertiary institutions, among others. “We are doing this very quickly because we need to take this law to NUC, that will do their due diligence and we are believing they will give us a timely approval when all of us will go and receive the certificates for the establishment of the two universities. “We believe that the transmission will be smooth. We believe that the process would be without any hindrance. We believe that we will do a good job at ensuring that what is best is the only thing that we do for Lagos. I feel so delighted and proud of all of us creating history today and I believe that indeed generations coming after us will remember this very bold, audacious decision that we have taken,” he said. Speaking earlier, Wahab said the establishment of the Lagos State University of Education and Lagos State University of Science and Technology, would solve issues relating to admission for Lagos State citizens. Wahab also commended Sanwo-Olu for putting his full weight behind the establishment of the two additional universities. He also appreciated the Lagos State House of Assembly led by Mr Mudashiru Obasa for believing in the process. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com