Governors of Ogun and Oyo states, Dapo Abiodun and Seyi Makinde respectively, on Wednesday, held a joint security meeting over the rising security threats of kidnappings, armed robbery, and other crimes in the two states. The two governors held the meeting at the Presidential Lodge, Abeokuta, the state capital, and in attendance were top government functionaries from the two states, Commissioners of Police as well as top military personnel. There has been an upsurge in kidnap cases especially on the Lagos-Ibadan Expressway and other border communities of the two South-West states. The joint security meeting was tagged “Ogun, Oyo Joint Security Meeting”. In his remarks, Abiodun said the meeting was one of the ways of demonstrating a collective patriotism and belief in the development of the two states, in particular, the entire South-West region and Nigeria in general. Abiodun noted that kidnappings and other crimes are rampant at the border communities of the two states. He added that both states have peculiar security challenges and they have been tackling it independently with their own mechanisms. Abiodun emphasised that his administration will continue to be at the forefront of promoting peaceful coexistence of the people of Ogun and neighbouring states. He, however, expressed optimism that the meeting would evolve practical and improved recommendations that would bring enduring peace and security to the people of the two states. According to him, the joint security effort would promote sustained economic development in the neighboring states. Abiodun said, “We will ensure no more hiding place for criminals. “As people, we must adopt a common strategy to finding lasting solutions to these security challenges “I will continue to make life intolerable for them (criminals) and I will continue to do it.” On his part, Makinde said the joint security meeting “is the right thing to do and it is absolutely important we do it.” The Oyo governor said, “We have this security challenge years back, yet the PDP governors in the two states could not resolve it, just like what happened between Oyo and Osun on the issue of sharing assets and liabilities of the university. But am glad that I and the APC government of Osun were able to resolve that.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com