The National Chairman of the Africa Democratic Congress (ADC), Mr. Raph Nwosu, has lamented that the Peoples Democratic Party and All Progressive Congress have failed Nigeria in the last 22 years in government. Nwosu who stated this while unveiling the party presidential aspirant in Asaba, the Delta State capital, said that a new Nigeria will begin with ADC in 2023. He said, “APC and PDP have failed Nigerians and reduced Nigeria to the poverty capital of the world with ravaging insecurity and dilapidated infrastructure in the past 22 years they held on to power at the centre. “ADC has been built over the last 20 years to become the party of the moment and the much desired third force to upstage the APC and PDP. “A new Nigeria will begin with ADC. APC and PDP are the same, you can differentiate between the toe parties. They are the same people” Nwosu vowed that ADC would displace the ruling APC and the main opposition party, PDP in the 2023 presidential election. In his address, a 42-year old presidential aspirant, Mr Chukwuka Monye, said he pitched his political tent with the ADC because of its ideology of restoring the dignity and value of Nigerians. He said, “As a social innovator who has built a lot of businesses in Africa continent both in government and private sector, I have solutions to Nigeria problems. “There are a lot of differences between policy formulations and policy implementation. With my passion with ADC, we will create a transformation policy and put the people’s need first” The Delta state-born social innovator named Security, Education, Healthcare, Reforming of Institutions especially law enforcement and justice and alleviating poverty as top in his agenda if elected. On signing of Electoral Bill into law by the President, major general Mohammadu Buhari (rtd), the 42-year-old presidential aspirant commended the gesture, saying “this is new beginning in Nigeria electoral process” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com