Table tennis player and seven-time Olympian, Olufunke Oshonaike, tells BLESSING ENENAITE about her career, achievements and other issues How would you describe your childhood? I am the third of nine children. For my elementary education, I attended Community Primary School, Somolu, Lagos. From there, I moved to Igbobi Girls High School, also in Lagos, for my secondary education. I went on to bag a Diploma in Physical and Health Education from the University of Lagos. I grew up in Somolu and started playing table tennis on a soak-away (pit filled with human waste) at the age of nine. I started representing Nigeria at the age of 14. What inspired you to pursue a career in sports? My brother inspired me to go into sports. I was a tomboy while growing up and I loved to do everything my brother did back then. Along the line, I developed a strong love for table tennis. Were your parents in support of your decision to go into sports? My daddy supported me 100 per cent. My mother did not care so much at the onset but she never stopped me. What were the challenges you faced when you made the decision to officially become a table tennis player? I did not face any challenge. My parents were there for me all the way and I was really supported by all. The only challenge I can remember was when I left primary school for a competition at Rowe Park Sport Centre, Yaba, Lagos, without telling anybody. For that, I was caned the next day at school. What were the factors that helped you get to this stage of your career? The support I got from my parents and the Lagos State Sports Council has always been top-notch. Who are your role models? I really don’t have any role models. How do you feel being a seven-time Olympian? It is a dream come true. It shows that one can be whatever one wants to be in life, regardless of one’s class, age, gender or marital status. What are the qualities that can make one a good table tennis player? The elements are 3Ds— determination, dedication and discipline. What are the benefits of belonging to the Nigerian Table Tennis Federation? The Nigerian Table Tennis Federation is being handled by the Ministry of Youth and Sports. If one is not a good player, one cannot belong to the Nigerian Table Tennis Federation. If one is good, one can join them and one could have the opportunity to represent Nigeria. As a table tennis player, one cannot go for any competition without the Nigerian Table Tennis Federation signing off on it. How do you handle setbacks? I see setbacks as part of life and learning. Life is a roller coaster full of ups and downs. We all must go through (challenges) but we should never stay down when we fall. For me, giving up has never been an option. It has been said that getting support for women in sports is quite challenging. How have you been able to make your way to the top over the years? It has not been easy for me, especially in the early days. However, I was ready for the challenges because I faced a lot of them while growing up. I thank God I still have one or two (people) that have always been there for me. Which of your games or tournaments would you say stretched you the most? That would be the last Olympics qualification (games) in Tunisia. I just had a surgery and it was so hard for me. I went through lots of stress, and cried practically every night. I still cried a lot when I finally qualified. Indeed, it was a dream come true for me. What are your most memorable moments as a table tennis player? One of them was when I won four gold medals at the All Africa Games in Abuja. That was not too long after I gave birth to my first child. He was just six months old then. Another one was being the flag bearer for Nigeria at the Rio de Janeiro Olympics in Brazil (2016). I also feel very happy and proud being the only woman in Africa and in the world of table tennis to have participated in the Olympics games seven times. Do you have plans to groom or mentor a younger table tennis player? I am doing my bit already but I can’t do so much from my base here in Germany. However, I have (some) girls I talk to and support through my foundation on how to be better than me. You participated in competitions despite being pregnant on two occasions. How was the experience like? They were fantastic experiences because I wanted to show African women that being pregnant shouldn’t stop one participating in competitions as long as one’s doctor gives one the go-ahead. At what point in your career did you feel you had arrived (made it big)? That was at the Rio Olympics when I was a flag bearer for Nigeria. Did you join sports with the intention of breaking records? No, I did not. When I started playing table tennis, it was all about what I loved to do. I used to follow my younger brother to play (table tennis) then. Afterwards, I started dreaming of representing my state, then to be a Nigerian champion. Thereafter, I became interested in being an African champion, then to win medals in Commonwealth championships. After that, I dreamt of winning medals in world championships, including the Olympic Games. Winning medals in the Olympics has been hard because the Asians have been winning almost all the medals in table tennis. So, it has been hard for other continents to win. The Asians are really good at table tennis. For me, my dream has been not only to win medals but to represent Nigeria and wear the country’s colours, which I have been able to do. I started dreaming of breaking records after the Rio Olympics in 2016, when I saw Segun Toriola being the first African to participate in the Olympics seven times. I told myself I could do that too. But, it was not something I really thought about from the beginning. You can imagine how long it took me to qualify from Africa because it is only six females from Africa that can represent the continent at the Olympics. It was not easy but I am grateful I broke the record. Do you feel positive about getting married again? I really don’t know if I want to get legally married again for now but I will surely be with a man in future and we could even do traditional marriage. However, I have not closed my mind to anything because change is constant. How would you describe your experience as a mother? So far, so good, I love being a mother and being called mummy. I have enjoyed every bit of it and I have no regrets at all. I am blessed with good kids that love me unconditionally. Has motherhood ever posed a challenge to your career? Not at all. I have achieved all my dreams as a mother. I recall that I always took my kids to competitions when they were babies. I thank God for the support I got from my coaches in Nigeria back then, and from my club in Hamburg, Germany. There seems to be an uptick in the number of women in sports, unlike what obtained in the past. What do you think is responsible for that? I think it is as a result of modernisation. Women are more awake now. Aside from that, parents are now allowing and encouraging their daughters to go into sports and other fields that were seen as the preserve of men in the past. I also thank God for social media, which has made the world ‘smaller’. Do you have any plans to quit playing table tennis anytime soon? In Germany, I don’t have any plans of quitting table tennis soon. My club is taking care of me and they won’t even allow me to go because I am still playing very well. Experience cannot be bought. But in Nigeria, I may quit very soon because the situation here is very different. I am still playing for Nigeria because I want to encourage a lot of women that they can be whoever they want to be irrespective of their age, status, or whatever they are going through in life. Who are your biggest cheerleaders? My biggest cheerleader is my daddy. He has been there for me since I started (my career). The other ones (cheerleaders) are also people who have been there for me since I started and are still there for me, including those who did not force me to quit table tennis. They appreciate my talent and are still there for me. What bold step have you taken over the years that made you who you are today? I have had reasons to quit playing table tennis but my never-say-die attitude has actually helped me to keep going on. I have a passion for table tennis and I love it so much. I am doing a lot to get better every time. Aside from table tennis, I do a lot of exercises. I am very careful with what I eat. My health is very important to me. I am a positive woman, irrespective of what people throw at me, including the criticisms. Sometimes, I cry about what people throw at me but I still learn one or two things from it and move on. A lot of things have happened to me but I am strong. I don’t give up easily. Giving up can never be an option for me. You don’t look your age. Have you ever been mistaken and addressed like somebody younger than you actually are? That happens many times at practically everywhere I go. But now, I consider it to be a compliment to me. My sisters used to fight with anybody that disrespected me back then in Nigeria but now, it does not ‘move’ any of us again. What are your most embarrassing moments while playing table tennis and interacting with fans? I have not had many embarrassing moments as an adult. My embarrassing moments happened when I was still a kid living in Nigeria. I can remember that during competitions, I never had many fans around me. A lot of people always booed me as I played against my opponents. They said I did not mix well with others. They felt I was proud. I don’t know what they were expecting from a 15-year-old girl like me then. It was so embarrassing and sad for me. I cried so much during that period because I did not understand why they didn’t like me. Most times, I had to play against my opponent and the crowd. Every time I lost to an opponent, it hurt me so much. There was a particular time I was discussing with a fan. The fan told me he never knew I could talk that way or even be friendly because he and some others assumed that I did not mingle with people. They thought I was arrogant and proud. I just smiled at him. While growing up, I learnt a lot of things, so many things that happen to me nowadays don’t embarrass me. However, one embarrassment moment that affected me was during the Nigeria Open about three years ago. I was playing against a Chinese player and I was shocked that a spectator was booing me because we had a little talk in the restroom. I had told him that he should not be loud because there were players from other countries watching us. Perhaps, he felt embarrassed that I told him to lower his voice and because of that, he had me in mind. It was quite embarrassing for me. What lessons have you learnt so far in your career? Patience, endurance and never-say-die spirit. How do you balance work and family? That is just a part of my life and it’s normal to me. I devote equal attention to both. I make sure none is lacking. I have good kids who are very understanding. I am not working for now because I lost my job, and my kids are asking me when I would start working again because they are used to me always working. Do you have any specific beauty regimen? I make sure I always eat healthily. I also make it a point of duty not to eat late. I drink a lot of water and sleep for eight hours or more in a day. Also, I exercise a lot, smile, laugh or cry when I am emotional or sad. I don’t drink alcohol and I don’t smoke. I always think positively as well. How do you like to dress? I like to dress well in fitting clothes but would never catch me appearing near-naked. Depending on where I’m going and what I’m doing, I could appear casual, sporty, formal or informal. What is your favorite fashion accessory? I love my gold necklace and hand chain. I usually wear them everywhere I go, even when I am playing at competitions. It is hard to see me without my gold necklace or bracelet. Those are my favorite fashion accessories. What is your advice to those who want to become successful table tennis players? You can be whatever you want to be, as long as you have the 3Ds I mentioned above. Nothing is impossible. In what ways can table tennis be developed in Nigeria? First, we need to go back to the way things used to be before. We should start from the grassroots, introducing the sport to primary schools, secondary schools and local councils, before moving to the state level. There should be table tennis boards on different streets, just the way it was back then. There should also be good coaches, right from the foundation level. What do you consider to be your biggest achievements so far? I started representing the country at the age of 14. I became a Nigerian champion at the age of 16 and by the times I was 17, I had become an African champion. I have won many medals for my country at different competitions. I won a bronze medal in mixed doubles at the Commonwealth Games. The last African championship I won was six years ago at over 40 years old. What are your other areas of interest? I am passionate about giving back to the underprivileged from the little I have. Meanwhile, I am still looking for sponsors to help with my pet project. Nothing gives me more joy than being able to help the underprivileged. You recently cried when you lost your job in Germany. Many felt you should have just moved on to another job without displaying emotions, considering your pedigree as a sportswoman. What is your reaction to that? I have realised that we have a lot of fake people on social media. A lot of people are going through stuff, yet they go on social media and pretend like everything is okay with them. I am not like that. When I am happy, you would know, and when I am sad, I would show it. It (losing my job) was so hard for me, especially because I could not see some of my colleagues again. I don’t regret doing that (video). It makes me human. Everybody cries and I don’t understand why something like that would happen and people expect me to be strong and just take it like that. They think it is so easy (to get by) in Europe. Some Nigerians think that when one loses a job, one would get another one just like that. Some people stay for a year or two without getting another job. Even to get a job as a cleaner is not easy. So, it hurt me to lose my job. We were like a family where I used to work. I could not even say goodbye to some people. I just wanted to show that the rich also cry. We all have good and bad times. Storms are part of our lives, and I am still going through that now because I have not been able to find another job. It is taking a long time because of the COVID-19 pandemic. A lot of companies have folded up and more would still collapse. People should appreciate those that show the good and bad sides, instead of those faking it. Those are the people they should be looking up to. What is your favorite food? I am not a foodie but I love okra, and I can eat it every day. I love it with pounded yam. I can eat okra with any kind of ‘swallow’ except eba. Another food I eat almost every day is rice, although I don’t like eating it alone. I prefer rice and beans with fresh fish. Considering that you live in Germany, how often do you eat African food? I am an African woman and every time I visit Nigeria, I try as much as possible to get garri, crayfish, dried fish and pap. Aside from that, there is an afro shop here in Germany. The only problem is that it is expensive. In my house, I cook Nigerian soups and stew almost every week. However, my children do not eat them, except jollof rice and plantain. They don’t eat ‘swallow’. I have access to all African foods because they sell it here in Hamburg (Germany). How do you like to unwind? I stay at home. Do you have any plans to quit playing table tennis anytime soon? In Germany, I don’t have any plans of quitting table tennis soon. My club is taking care of me and they won’t even allow me to go because I am still playing very well. Experience cannot be bought. But in Nigeria, I may quit very soon because the situation here is very different. I am still playing for Nigeria because I want to encourage a lot of women that they can be whoever they want to be irrespective of their age, status, or whatever they are going through in life. Who are your biggest cheerleaders? My biggest cheerleader is my daddy. He has been there for me since I started (my career). The other ones (cheerleaders) are also people who have been there for me since I started and are still there for me, including those who did not force me to quit table tennis. They appreciate my talent and are still there for me. What bold step have you taken over the years that made you who you are today? I have had reasons to quit playing table tennis but my never-say-die attitude has actually helped me to keep going on. I have a passion for table tennis and I love it so much. I am doing a lot to get better every time. Aside from table tennis, I do a lot of exercises. I am very careful with what I eat. My health is very important to me. I am a positive woman, irrespective of what people throw at me, including the criticisms. Sometimes, I cry about what people throw at me but I still learn one or two things from it and move on. A lot of things have happened to me but I am strong. I don’t give up easily. Giving up can never be an option for me. What is your favorite food? I am not a foodie but I love okra, and I can eat it every day. I love it with pounded yam. I can eat okra with any kind of ‘swallow’ except eba. Another food I eat almost every day is rice, although I don’t like eating it alone. I prefer rice and beans with fresh fish. Considering that you live in Germany, how often do you eat African food? I am an African woman and every time I visit Nigeria, I try as much as possible to get garri, crayfish, dried fish and pap. Aside from that, there is an afro shop here in Germany. The only problem is that it is expensive. In my house, I cook Nigerian soups and stew almost every week. However, my children do not eat them, except jollof rice and plantain. They don’t eat ‘swallow’. I have access to all African foods because they sell it here in Hamburg (Germany). Did you join sports with the intention of breaking records? No, I did not. When I started playing table tennis, it was all about what I loved to do. I used to follow my younger brother to play (table tennis) then. Afterwards, I started dreaming of representing my state, then to be a Nigerian champion. Thereafter, I became interested in being an African champion, then to win medals in Commonwealth championships. After that, I dreamt of winning medals in world championships, including the Olympic Games. Winning medals in the Olympics has been hard because the Asians have been winning almost all the medals in table tennis. So, it has been hard for other continents to win. The Asians are really good at table tennis. For me, my dream has been not only to win medals but to represent Nigeria and wear the country’s colours, which I have been able to do. I started dreaming of breaking records after the Rio Olympics in 2016, when I saw Segun Toriola being the first African to participate in the Olympics seven times. I told myself I could do that too. But, it was not something I really thought about from the beginning. You can imagine how long it took me to qualify from Africa because it is only six females from Africa that can represent the continent at the Olympics. It was not easy but I am grateful I broke the record. What are your most embarrassing moments while playing table tennis and interacting with fans? I have not had many embarrassing moments as an adult. My embarrassing moments happened when I was still a kid living in Nigeria. I can remember that during competitions, I never had many fans around me. A lot of people always booed me as I played against my opponents. They said I did not mix well with others. They felt I was proud. I don’t know what they were expecting from a 15-year-old girl like me then. It was so embarrassing and sad for me. I cried so much during that period because I did not understand why they didn’t like me. Most times, I had to play against my opponent and the crowd. Every time I lost to an opponent, it hurt me so much. There was a particular time I was discussing with a fan. The fan told me he never knew I could talk that way or even be friendly because he and some others assumed that I did not mingle with people. They thought I was arrogant and proud. I just smiled at him. While growing up, I learnt a lot of things, so many things that happen to me nowadays don’t embarrass me. However, one embarrassment moment that affected me was during the Nigeria Open about three years ago. I was playing against a Chinese player and I was shocked that a spectator was booing me because we had a little talk in the restroom. I had told him that he should not be loud because there were players from other countries watching us. Perhaps, he felt embarrassed that I told him to lower his voice and because of that, he had me in mind. It was quite embarrassing for me. What are the benefits of belonging to the Nigerian Table Tennis Federation? The Nigerian Table Tennis Federation is being handled by the Ministry of Youth and Sports. If one is not a good player, one cannot belong to the Nigerian Table Tennis Federation. If one is good, one can join them and one could have the opportunity to represent Nigeria. As a table tennis player, one cannot go for any competition without the Nigerian Table Tennis Federation signing off on it. What is your favorite fashion accessory? I love my gold necklace and hand chain. I usually wear them everywhere I go, even when I am playing at competitions. It is hard to see me without my gold necklace or bracelet. Those are my favorite fashion accessories. You recently cried when you lost your job in Germany. Many felt you should have just moved on to another job without displaying emotions, considering your pedigree as a sportswoman. What is your reaction to that? I have realised that we have a lot of fake people on social media. A lot of people are going through stuff, yet they go on social media and pretend like everything is okay with them. I am not like that. When I am happy, you would know, and when I am sad, I would show it. It (losing my job) was so hard for me, especially because I could not see some of my colleagues again. I don’t regret doing that (video). It makes me human. Everybody cries and I don’t understand why something like that would happen and people expect me to be strong and just take it like that. They think it is so easy (to get by) in Europe. Some Nigerians think that when one loses a job, one would get another one just like that. Some people stay for a year or two without getting another job. Even to get a job as a cleaner is not easy. So, it hurt me to lose my job. We were like a family where I used to work. I could not even say goodbye to some people. I just wanted to show that the rich also cry. We all have good and bad times. Storms are part of our lives, and I am still going through that now because I have not been able to find another job. It is taking a long time because of the COVID-19 pandemic. A lot of companies have folded up and more would still collapse. People should appreciate those that show the good and bad sides, instead of those faking it. Those are the people they should be looking up to. What is your plan this Valentine’s Day? I am not thinking about Valentine’s Day at all! I don’t have any love to celebrate Valentine’s Day with here in Germany. So, I’m going to be all by myself. What is your most memorable Valentine’s Day experience? I can’t remember any because I refused to think about my past hurtful marriage. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com