Peoples Democratic Party presidential aspirant, Dele Momodu, has boasted that he is confident that he would beat other aspirants including former Vice President, Atiku Abubakar, former Senate President, Bukola Saraki and others to the party’s ticket ahead of the 2023 election. Momodu said this on Sunday while speaking with newsmen in Abeokuta, Ogun State, during the investiture of Rotarian ‘Muyiwa Mathew Fajimi as the Charter President of the Rotary Club of Ibara GRA District 9110. The Presidential aspirant said he remains the best candidate to succeed the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari(retd.) because “he is fresh and untainted.” Momodu said, “It has nothing to do with the South, whether North or from the South, you have a Dele Momodu, who is coming fresh. He has never been in government, he has not been tainted by power. He is coming fresh. I am the only one.” He however said finance is no longer Nigeria’s challenge rather the political class who engage in “wasteful spending.” Momodu noted that a lot of Nigerian politicians in government enjoy what they could not enjoy in their private capacity, thereby putting pressure on the nation’s finances. He, therefore, called for an urgent cut in government’s spending with a view to focussing on developmental projects. He said “Finance is not a problem in Nigeria. It’s about the determination of one leader to do what’s right and one of the things we need to cut urgently is waste in government. A lot of Nigerian politicians in government enjoy what they could not enjoy in their private capacity. There is nothing I want to enjoy now that I have not enjoyed. I am coming there to work for legacy. “The moment you reduce how much you waste on Politicians, you will see that there will be money for development. There will be money for projects.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com