A former Senate President and Presidential aspirant, Dr Bukola Saraki, on Thursday consulted with former Vice President Namadi Sambo, former governor of Kaduna State, Senator Ahmed Makarfi over his 2023 presidential ambition. Besides, the former Senate President also met with Mallam Mukhtar Yero, ex-governor of the state, and other members of the Peoples Democratic Party in the state. Though Saraki was absent, a delegation led by the Chairman, Contact and Mobilisation Committee of The Abubakar Bukola Saraki for 2023 Presidency, Prof Iyorwuese Hagher, met the party leaders on his behalf in Kaduna. Hagher, a second Republic Senator, who spoke at the PDP secretariat, lamented that Nigeria as a country was sick and needed a person like Saraki, a medical doctor, to heal her if voted as the President in 2023. He said Nigerians should entrust the healing process to Saraki and watch as he ensured a healthy nation. According to him, the presidency under Saraki would be a double blessing for the country for the fact that he is young, energetic, and ready to listen to the yearnings of the citizens. Hagher said, “We have met with former Vice President Namadi Sambo, former governor Ahmed Makarfi, former governor Ramalan Yero, former and serving PDP Senators. They gave us permission to come and address the larger house in Kaduna. We are in PDP because APC is not a party to join. “Nigerians are sick and tired of APC, a strange bedfellow that came together to bring hardship on Nigerians through a civilian dictatorship. “PDP is well organised. It will defeat APC. Saraki will be accepted by the north and south. He is well educated. Now that Nigeria is sick, it needs  Abubakar Bukola Saraki because he is a medical doctor. “Nigeria needs an energetic president who will cry when citizens are crying, the president that will laugh when citizens are laughing. Not the president that will be laughing when citizens are crying. When he becomes president he will unite the citizens. “We have insecurity in the country today because the leaders are incapable. We need a president that will ensure the security of the people.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com