A United Stated trained Nurse and Clinical Scientist from Ogun State, Abdulfattah Durojaiye, on Saturday declared his intention to contest the 2023 presidential election on the platform of the Peoples Redemption Party with a pledge to reform the police and military to end security challenges. The 53-year old national leader of the United Nigeria Movement for Change, stated these during the national convention of the PRP which held in Abuja. He said the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), has no reason to decline the signing of the Electoral Amendment Bill to ensure that people like him could contest under a healthy electoral process. “On Electoral Bill, I believe the President will do the right thing. I believe he will want to do the best for the country. In his capacity, signing this Electoral Bill, is the best he can do. I don’t believe that he will deliberately derail the process that will bring someone like me into the leadership of the country”, he said. According to him, his decision to contest was informed by the fact that successive governments have failed the country while Nigeria has become more divided in recent times than what was experienced during the civil war. He said, “We can see the situation of our country and we can see today that Nigeria is more divided than even the time of the Civil War. Our country is going down the drain. This time calls for men of conscience to salvage Nigeria. “As the President, I will live in Nigeria, be treated in Nigeria, die in Nigeria and I will be buried in Nigeria, and that’s what we are going to offer our people when you ask about state police. Police is communal. Police is local, likewise, crime is local. We are going to have a lot of reform and our police reform is one of those key reforms, our judiciary will also be reformed. “We are going to reform our military. We are going to reform so many of our core critical areas so that we can deliver and have efficient organization that we will push our agenda forward by the time we restructure when we reorganise and reform our police. “You will see that all these security challenges will disappear. The perpetrators are not genes, they are human beings.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com