The Osun State Labour Party governorship candidate, Mr. Lasun Yusuff, on Monday accused supporters of Governor Adegboyega Oyetola of attacking his residence in Ilobu. Less than a week to the July 16 poll, some yet-to-be-identified people reportedly attacked Yusuff’s house around 1am on Monday and shot at the building, damaging some aluminum windows at its upper floor, but no casualty was recorded. Giving accounts of how the attack happened on a radio programme monitored on Rave FM, Osogbo, Yusuff said, “This attack was a surprise and it lasted for about 20 minutes and we have evidence that supporters of Governor Oyetola actually did it. We have the evidence. The police have been here, they gathered the evidence that the supporters of Governor Oyetola came to attack my house. “My life is in danger and when life is in danger, no allegation is strong. I never attacked anybody. My belief is that I want to govern Osun people and I should tell them what I have in mind and I have told them in three debates. I was a member of the House of Representatives, I was a Deputy Speaker and people saw what I did. “They came to my house. Part of the evidence is with the police. The attack started around 1am and lasted for about 20 minutes. Fortunately enough, my own security men were on ground. So it was not a reported speech. The police actually witnessed everything.” However, the Chief Press Secretary to the Governor, Ismail Omipidan, called on the security agencies to investigate the attack and unmask the perpetrators. He said, “On behalf of the state government, we are calling on the security operatives to please kindly investigate the allegation by Hon. Lasun Yusuff because I am tempted to believe that he is planning to unleash violence on the innocent people of Irepodun Local Government on the day of election. “He is therefore using this as an alibi to prepare the ground for what he wants to do because if we were to be what he’s trying to paint us to be, I am sure that you will agree with me that we probably would have been after the PDP because it is that party that has been attacking our supporters.” Attempts to get a response from the Osun Police Command’s spokesperson, Yemisi Opalola, did not yield positive result as calls made to her mobile line rang out and she has yet to respond to a text message sent to her as of the time of filing this report. Meanwhile, the Accord Party’s governorship candidate, Dr. Akin Ogunbiyi, has condemned the attack in a press statement issued in Osogbo on Monday by his campaign organisation.