The Senator representing the Akwa Ibom North-East Senatorial District, Senator Bassey Akpan, has resigned his membership of the Peoples Democratic Party on which platform he was elected into the Red Chamber. Akpan, who is the Chairman, Senate Committee on Petroleum Resources (Upstream), made his intention known in a letter he personally signed dated July 15, 2022. In the letter addressed to the Ward Chairman of the Ibiono Ibom Eastern Ward I in the Ibiono Ibom Local Government Area of Akwa Ibom State, Akpan cited his ambition to vie for the governorship seat of the state, which, he said, “cannot be actualised under the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party.” The letter titled, ‘Resignation of my membership of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP)’, read: “It is with the greatest sense of responsibility, purpose, and love for my people that I make bold this communication. “I have been a loyal and committed member of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) for over 20 years and have through the platform of the party served our people, state, and nation diligently without any blemish, and I have, by the grace of God, contributed positively and impactfully to the growth and development of our dear country, state, and our people in general. “I believe as a lawmaker and a distinctive one at that, I must at all times advocate and pursue virtues and values that promote and sustain the effective adherence to the rule of law. “As you are aware, my aspiration to serve our dear state in the office of the Executive Governor is not personal or selfish but rather the collective ambition of our people, based on the principles of justice and equity, to achieve a better and prosperous Akwa Ibom State. “In the words of Jean Anouilh and I quote ‘The only immorality is not to do what one has to do when one has to do it’. “Therefore, after an extensive consultation with my God, family, friends, supporters, and well-meaning believers in a just and equitable Akwa Ibom State across the world, it’s obvious that these collective yearnings and aspirations cannot be actualised under the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). “Consequently, guided by the sentiments, concerns and worries of our people so expressed on the need to take immediate steps for the actualisation of their aspirations, I am therefore compelled to resign my membership of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) forthwith. “I am convinced that this action will enable me to take the next positive step to meet the hopes and expectations of Akwa Ibom People. “Thank you and may God bless Akwa Ibom State.”