Residents on Sunday said scores of people are missing and hundreds have fled across River Donga to Nyivu in Donga Local Government Area after suspected herdsmen attacked Manya and Sabongida Kpasimbe communities in Takum Local Government Area of Taraba State. But the state police command said nobody is missing and that personnel have been deployed to maintain law and order in the area. This is even as the member representing Takum I State Constituency in the state House of Assembly, Garba Ajiya, said no life was lost in the two attacks. A resident of Manya who fled to Takum town, Mr Tanko Tsokwa, told our correspondent on the telephone that the attackers invaded the community and started shooting around 5.30 am. “They came in large number in the company of cows and started shooting sporadically. Luckily enough, we were able to escape through the river and crossed over to Nyivu. “I can’t confirm any casualty, but many people, especially women, and children are missing,” he said. Ajiya, while confirming the attack, said his village, Sabon-Gida Kpashimbe, was also attacked but no life was lost. The lawmaker said, “Yes, they attacked and burnt houses in Manya and my village Sabon-Gida Kpashimbe, but no life was lost. I was told they have proceeded to Kwesati in the neighbouring Ussa Local Government Area. “At present, 21 villages in my constituency have been sacked by the attackers who have now occupied the communities and are feeding on people’s farms. “They have converted some of the houses that were not burnt to their houses where they are staying and committing these atrocities. “I want to call on the government to provide immediate relief to the IDPs to address the humanitarian situation in areas under attack and take steps to end the killings.” When contacted, the state Police Public Relations Officer, Gambo Kwache, said the command has deployed more personnel to maintain peace in the affected area. “We have made a deployment to the area and our men are on the trail of the attackers,” she said. Our correspondent reported that communities in Ussa and Takum mostly inhabited by the Kuteb ethnic group have come under attacks, leaving over 120, 000 people displaced and scores killed since January this year.