The All Progressives Congress in the North-West zone has resolved to rally voters to support the Tinubu-Shettima ticket for the 2023 presidency. The zone affirmed its support for the former Borno State Governor, Senator Kashim Shettima, as the party’s presidential running mate in the forthcoming elections. These were contained in a statement by the party’s Zonal Secretary, Alhaji Musa Mada, released in Kaduna on Tuesday. The APC’s National Vice Chairman (North-West), Dr. Salihu Lukman, who led a delegation of the leadership of the party to meet stakeholders in Jigawa State, said in the statement that the zone would leave no stone unturned in ensuring victory for the party in 2023. Lukeman said the stakeholders discussed extensively on how to achieve success, particularly in the North-West zone during the 2023 general election. He also said among other issues discussed at the meeting was the ongoing voter registration exercise which the participants attributed the poor turnout for voters registration to “the inadequacy of capturing systems within the zone.” “Prominent among issues raised at the meeting was the emergence of Shettima as the running mate of the party’s presidential candidate, Bola Tinubu, and how the zone should position itself in bringing victory to the party at all levels,” he said. According to him, participants at the meeting resolved to work for the unity of party members and as well, made commitments to mobilise Nigerians to vote for the duo of Tinubu and Shettima as the next President and Vice President of the country, come 2023. In his response, the Deputy Governor of Jigawa State, Umar Namadi, told the leadership of the party that the state government established a committee solely on voter registration to ensure the success of the exercise in the state. He said the state government also set up the reconciliation committee to reach out to aggrieved members aimed at strengthening the party in the state. Namadi, who is also the party’s governorship candidate, said, “another committee established by the Jigawa Government is that of voters registration which is charged with the responsibility of ensuring the success of the exercise in the state.”