The Convener, New Nigeria Group, Sam Ohuabunwa, has advocated for a transparent leadership recruitment process, citizen activism and enforcement of rules of engagement as well as international alliance against poor governance. According to him, the afore-mentioned will solve the problem of poor governance and abuse of power by agents of governments in many countries, especially in Africa. A statement by his Media Office on Sunday stated that Ohuabunwa, who recently aspired to fly the 2023 presidential flag of the Peoples Democratic Party, made the call in a keynote address titled, ‘The Purpose and Power of Governments in a Changing World.’ The address was delivered at Business Leaders’ Summit 2022 held at Best Western Hotel, Victoria Island, Lagos, on Saturday. The Statement quoted Ohuabunwa as saying, “It is important to seek ways of reversing the current levels of poor governance and abuse of powers by agents of Governments in many climes and even in sub nationals and ensuring that governments fulfill their purpose of establishment and use their powers to advance the well being of the citizens and improve global prosperity and peace.” The former President of Pharmaceutical Society of Nigeria was also copiously quoted by his Media Office, as saying, “In many countries, political leadership recruitment is very faulty and in many cases fraudulent. “The recent Presidential Primaries in Nigeria especially among the major political parties exemplify what is patently wrong with our leadership selection in many African Countries, Nigeria being the worst case in my view. It was more of a bazaar with the highest bidder emerging victorious. “It will be a miracle for the kind of leader that will govern selflessly and work to achieve the purpose of government and use the powers of the government for common good emerge from this type of process. “In some climes, it is the most violent or most dubious that will win, sometimes enthroning criminals and felons as political leaders. The work to reverse this ugly trend lie with the Government authorities – legislative, regulatory and judicial. “A new crop of leadership needs to emerge that will have to understand global trends, be technology savvy and competitive. In some climes they are emerging but in other climes like ours, they are being stopped. That is our tragedy.” Ohuabunwa further said derelict politicians were getting away with their evil devices and the imposition of impostors as political leaders because of citizen docility, adding that any Government or Nation that wanted to get its bearing right must embark on massive citizen education and enlightenment. “Many of the derelict politicians get away with their evil devices and the imposition of impostors as political leaders because of citizen docility. Some of this docility is caused by ignorance, some is caused by dehumanizing poverty and some caused by self- resignation. “Any government or nation that wants to get its bearing right must embark on massive citizen education and enlightenment. “There is also a great role for civil society here to claim the space and get the citizens understand the dangers of selling their votes or being indifferent. The constitution of many Nations, especially the democratic ones say that power belongs to the people. “Therefore, they must rise up and possess their possessions as we say in our church. Of course the deliberate impoverishment of the citizens must stop! “Here, the kind of activism that led to the Arab Springs in the Middle East and the Endsars revolt in Nigeria became the hallmark. _Our enlightened youth population must lead on rewriting the rules for our political governance. It may be a forlorn hope to expect the politicians in some of these beleaguered Nations to undertake self correction. “Citizen resistance that is non violent to my mind may be the most potent tool for forcing correction”, he opined. On enforcement of rules of engagement, Ohuabunwa, said: “On paper in many Nations, the rules are there but enforcement is poor- deliberately more often. Corruption has weakened many law enforcement agencies, leaving them largely unable to perform. “We need empowered and truly independent regulatory and law enforcement agencies. Again demand by the citizenry must be strident and unyielding . We need facilitative regulation enthroned by enlightened leadership.”