The Kwara State Police Command on Friday said that it rescued a Chinese national abducted at a Quarry in Shao in Moro Local Government Area of the state by suspected gunmen last week Saturday. The gunmen who attacked the people at the Quarry shot dead an inspector and injured another officer while the Chinese national was taken away. The police in a statement by the command’s spokesperson, SP Ajayi Okasanmi, said that the Chinese citizen was rescued from his abductors after they had escaped from the police tactical teams who closed in on their hideout. Okasanmi said, “The command wishes to inform the general public that the efforts by the police and other security operatives deployed in the search and rescue operation in favour of a Chinese citizen abducted by some gunmen on 3/7/2022 at CGC Construction Company along Shao/Oloru expressway yielded positive results. “The pressure mounted on the kidnappers by the rescue teams became so intense that the criminals couldn’t stand the heat, forcing them to abandon the victim and escape for dear lives. Policemen and the tactical teams deployed for the operation are still in the bushes in an effort to get the criminals arrested to face justice. “Meanwhile, the rescued Chinese citizen is currently undergoing medical examination to ascertain his state of health before he is reunited with his family.’’ In another development, Okasanmi also said that the police arrested a man suspected to be a ritualist with human head and animal parts in Ilorin, the state capital. “Acting on an actionable intelligence, eagle-eyed operatives attached to Kwara State Police Command apprehended some suspected ritualists whose stock in trade is buying, trading and trafficking in human body parts. They couriered human skulls from Lagos State into Ilorin and headed to Balogun Fulani motor park in Ilorin South LGA of the state. “On the strength of the information, the team arrested one Ibrahim Hamza ‘m’ aged 41years of Orisunbare area of Okolowo, Ilorin who had earlier received the package from the motor park. Upon discreet search conducted on him, a human skull concealed in a carton with his name and phone number inscribed on it was recovered. “Preliminary investigation into the matter revealed that the suspect actually procured the human skull, horse head, Chimpanzee head and other items which were recovered in his house to which he confessed he intended to use for money rituals.’’