The Director General of Tinubu Support Organization, Aminu Suleiman, has said that the youth are planning a one million man mobilisation campaign for the presidential candidate of the All Progressives Congress, Bola Tinubu, to sell his programmes to Nigerians before the 2023 election. Speaking in Kwara State at the hosting of youths by the North Central Coordinator of Tinubu support organization,  Yinka Oniyangi, on Saturday, Aminu said several support groups will be collaborating to ensure effective mobilisation for the former Lagos State governor. “We have many support groups that have seen the work we are doing for our leader under TSO, so they want to come and join us. Many of the support groups are even asking us to come and do a million march for our leader, Ahmed Tinubu and that is why we are here in Kwara to receive them. “We have the confidence that Asiwaju Ahmed Tinubu would emerge as president of the party. He was in the system for over 35 years with the track record that he has God will make him Nigeria president,” he added. Also speaking at the occasion, Oniyangi said that last week’s defeat of APC candidate in the Osun State governorship election would not affect Tinubu’s victory during next year’s presidential election. Oniyangi said that the APC had learnt a lot of lessons from the defeat adding that the party would go back to the drawing board to restrategize for the 2023 elections. He said, “What happened in Osun governorship election is a lesson to all of us but Asiwaju Tinubu’s accountability measurement is different from the state measurement given his success when he was governor of Lagos State. I’m very confident that is not going to have any effect, especially on the 2023 presidential election “The Osun election is about accountability and performance of the governor. Asiwaju Ahmed Tinubu is measured on his performance in his past records as governor of Lagos State and the narrative has not changed, he has the 5Cs and what are the 5Cs he has the capacity, he has capability, he has consistency, commitment, and creativity. “Those five Cs can be assured that the narrative will not change, we also have to measure where we are before and where are we today what is happening to Nigeria today is global and nobody is perfect. I can tell you that APC has performed well,” he said. He also said that there was nothing wrong with the Muslim -Muslim ticket adopted by the party’s presidential candidate if that was what would make him win the election. “Are we running a religious government? This is just politics and politics is about winning, the first thing we need to find out is how you win and the narrative has changed since he announced Shettima as his running mate. “when he appointed Masari as vice-president’s placeholder, nobody was saying anything but when he brought out the one who is threatening the opposition in numbers the narrative changed.”