A political support group of Kogi State Governor, Yahaya Bello, has assured the vice presidential candidate of the All Progressives Congress, Senator Kashim Shettima, of victory in the state ahead of the 2023 general election. The Governor Yahaya Bello Network 4 Asiwaju, led by the state coordinator, Haddy Ametuo, gave the assurance after a closed-door meeting with Shettima in Abuja on Monday evening. The meeting is coming nine days after the Kogi governor collapsed his structure, Yahaya Bello Campaign Organisation, and donated his campaign office to the APC presidential flagbearer, Bola Tinubu. Reciprocating the goodwill, Tinubu, accompanied by Governors Babajide Sanwo-Olu (Lagos), Bello Matawalle (Zamfara) and Abdullahi Ganduje (Kano), had commended Bello for mobilising the consciousness of the Nigerian youths, saying he “reminded us of what the nation wants to be.” In Monday’s meeting, Ametuo briefed Shettima on their activities and proposed plan to ensure the victory of the APC presidential ticket during the 2023 general elections. He said, “Through the support of our principals Alhaji Yahaya Bello, we paid a solidarity visit to our Vice Presidential candidate Senator Kashim Shettima on Monday to congratulate him on his selection and to assure him of our support for the project. “We are particularly excited because Senator Kashim Shettima is young, brilliant, resourceful, energetic, and a round peg in a round hole who would add developmental values to Nigeria.” The political support group pledged its whole alliance and support for the presidential candidate and his running mate ahead of the poll. Ametuo also reassured that Kogi APC, under the leadership of Bello, has been repositioned and strengthened beyond the reach of opposition political parties in its bid to secure victory for the Tinubu-Shettima ticket in the state. “Being a grassroots organisation, we assured Senator Shettima that we will ensure massive mobilisation of real voters from all the nook and crannies of Kogi state to deliver the ticket 100 percent during the election.” “Against all odds, we believe that Senator Shettima was selected based on the principles of integrity, inclusion, and continued performances and relevance in Nigerian politics,” he said.