At the official presentation of former Governor of Borno State, Kashim Shettima, as the running mate of the presidential flagbearer of the All Progressives Congress, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, on Wednesday, journalists watched in amusement as persons dressed as pastors and bishops showed up at the venue. Their presence seemed to cause a stir as onlookers and guests stared hard at them as they walked into the reception of the Musa Yar’Adua Centre, dressed in their cassocks and habits, amid heavy security at the venue. Nigerians have reacted to this as knocks have greeted the APC and its flagbearer, Tinubu, on social media. Popular #EndSARS activist, Rinu Oduala, joined others in reaction on Twitter via her handle, @SavvyRinu, saying, “The APC is fielding a Muslim-Muslim ticket but went to rent fake bishops. What sort of ridicule is this? What message do they think this will send?” Another tweep, @ejykmykel1, said, “Dear @OfficialAPCNg, We have only four female bishops in Nigeria: Bishop Oluremi, Ayotunde Obembe, Bishop Bola Odeleke, Bishop Peace Okonkwo,  Archbishop Margaret Idahosa. The tweep went further to ask the APC to publish the name of the female bishop seen in one of the pictures. “Can you help to publish the name of the female bishop at your occasion today? Nigerians are curious,” the tweep posted. @TheoAbuAgada tweeted,  “APC rented bishops at the unveiling of their vice-presidential candidate, Mallam Kashim Shettima. They are so desperate for validation.” Popular social activist, Aisha Yesufu, also joined the trend, via @AishaYesufu, she posted, “Why do you think fake bishops need to be used at the unveiling of Shettima? That is waste of time. There are many that will be honoured to be invited. Most religious rulers need bad governance to sell cheap miracles whether pastors or Mallams. Know this and have peace.” Popular Nigerian music artiste, Peter Okoye, tweeted in a funny way via @PeterPsquare, saying, “Fake bishops and even fake Peter Okoye! Naija!” “I thought it was only fake Peter Okoye that is trending… They even created fake bishops today! God why?” He reacted in another tweet. Another tweep, @Real_AmakaIke, posted, “Bishop spotted in the APC show of shame with Muslim prayer’s mat No be juju be that?” @simeonegbeobasi, said, “Unknown bishops: If the Christian votes are not important to Tinubu and the APC, why this shameful make-believe desperation to win us over. Honestly, these are symptoms of a man that can kill a race for power.”