The founder of Adeleke University in Ede, Osun State, and an elder brother to the state governor-elect, Dr. Deji Adeleke, on Sunday warned that if his government fails, he would lead the opposition against his younger brother, Senator Ademola Adeleke. The AU founder, who spoke at the university’s eighth convocation in Ede, also said apart from the challenge of good leadership that was affecting the country, the nation was also not having the best of followership. Adeleke, who decried vote-buying, said he told his brother and some Peoples Democratic Party governors that since the governor-elect would not be refunding money to any godfather after the election, he should assemble a good team that would work and improve the living conditions of the people. He said, “I told the governor-elect (Senator Ademola Adeleke) and his colleagues. I said you are lucky because you don’t have any godfather to refund any money to, so whatever people contributed for your election is a sacrifice for a better Nigeria, for a better state. “So, you and your colleagues are not under any pressure. The only thing you need to do out there is to go and serve the people and I threatened them that I would be the first to call a press conference if I saw things going wrong with their government. “I will be the first to alert the world that your governor is derailing, and I have told him and his team not to allow anyone that is not ready to serve, anyone whose focus is to come and look for money, to steal from the poor people, into the team.” According to him, followership that cannot hold the government accountable portends danger for the future, noting that his brother would have lost the July 16 poll after 45 members of the National Youth Service Corps did not show up at their designated polling unit. He added, “Meanwhile, people were waiting to vote but materials, result sheets, and BVAS machines were taken somewhere else. “Until a director started calling to make sure that those people reported to where they were supposed to, my brother wouldn’t have been the governor-elect today. “Who allowed themselves to be used were NYSC young people. It’s not the commissioners of INEC. People blame INEC, forgetting that the young ones that have been entrusted with this responsibility are the ones wrecking their own future.” 