Chairman of Labour Party in Edo State, Comrade Lucky Ogbaloi, has said the setting up of structures all over the country and the disarray in the All Progressives Congress and the Peoples Democratic Party will boost his party’s bid to winning the presidential election in 2023. Ogbaloi told The PUNCH on Monday that groups were also signing up to work for the party to complement the social media activities of the party faithful and put the Labour Party candidate, Peter Obi, in the forefront of the race. He said: “I will admit that the Labour Party has a lot of social media attention, which some people think will fizzle out with time. But we are already setting up structures all over the local government areas and going into the wards to make our presence felt. In Edo, we have chairmen in all LGAs already. The kind of structure we are looking at as a party is not the type the ordinary person is looking at. We are looking at human structures that have been built all over the place. The local government has been strengthened, same for the ward, and we have the units being activated on daily basis. We are not joking because we will do what it takes to take power. “All that is required as we move towards the 2023 Presidential election is intact and vigorously being pursued. We have a reasonable number of groups who have declared to selflessly work for the party. Committees are being set up all over the country, town halls will be held with identified groups and others with the aim of achieving the ultimate goal. “Currently, the APC and the PDP do not have the stamina to do battle. The steam has been taken off them and they are in disarray. You can’t place something on nothing and expect it to stand. It is clear that those parties have disappointed us. We don’t need to say anything about them as the evidences of their misrule are glaring. “The problem of insecurity is not abating, the economy has crumbled, the naira is getting weaker against all other major currencies, power supply is epileptic and small scale industries are collapsing. In Edo State, the PDP with the litany of court cases is divided, while there are also unresolved issues at the national level. So, for me, the Labour Party is doing all it needs to do to win the election,” he stated. When asked if he knew that money politics could hinder his party’s chances, he said, “If people are suffering so much by collecting money in the past and it is not yet in our consciousness that that is our greatest undoing, then I think we are not ready to move forward. But the way it is now, people will collect money from whoever brings and vote intelligently. “The Labour Party does not have money to convince anyone to vote for it. People now know that the money being collected does not last for four years but it will leave them poorer after the those who have them leave office,” Ogbaloi added.