The Kaduna State Governor, Mallam Nasir El-Rufai and the All Progressives Congress’ Governorship candidate in the state, Senator Uba Sani have felicitated with Muslims on this year’s occasion of Eid-el-Adhan. Specifically, the governorship candidate said Nigerians would be richly rewarded for their patience and sacrifices in the quest to move the country forward despite challenges. Sani, who’s also the incumbent senator representing Kaduna Central, in a Sallah message to Muslims across the State, expressed gratitude to God for the opportunity to be part of the celebration. He reminded the Muslims ummah(community) of the significance of Sallah which include patience, trust, faith, obedience and sacrifice. “Patience and sacrifice for a good or just cause is also fundamental to progress, building of peaceful societies and human survival. Staying aloof and doing nothing worsens situations and deepens the sense of helplessness and hopelessness. “We have been going through a debilitating crisis and huge challenges that test the will of the human person. But we are still trudging along, keeping hope alive and utilizing available opportunities to better our lives. “We are indeed resilient and strong people. Governments at different levels have been making efforts to address our economic and security challenges but a lot still needs to be done,” he noted. “As you are aware, I have put myself forward for the office of the Governor of Kaduna State. I want to serve our people and take the state to higher heights. I seek the support of all men and women of goodwill. “Let us work together to effectively and efficiently deliver services to our people and safeguard their lives and livelihoods. It is a duty we owe our state and our people,” he said. Meanwhile, El-Rufai while felicitating with the Muslim faithful on the occasion, congratulated pilgrims from the State for the opportunity to undertake the Hajj for the first time since 2019. The governor through his Special Adviser on Media and Communication, Muyiwa Adekeye, urged the Muslim faithful “to emulate sacrifice and faith in our daily lives.” El-Rufai said, “It is my great honour and privilege to salute the Muslim faithful on the occasion of Eid-El-Kabir. The festival of sacrifice is a celebration of Prophet Ibrahim’s (AS) absolute faith in the Almighty Allah, a tradition that the noble Prophet Muhammad (SAW) continued with, which is being observed annually by Muslims worldwide as an act of worship. “In these difficult times, let us be buoyed by faith and retain the hope that together we can make things better. Let us embrace the lesson of sacrifice and uphold peace and goodwill towards all. “We congratulate the pilgrims from the State who are able to undertake the Hajj for the first time since 2019. We wish them a safe return home.”