The Osun State Governor-Elect, Senator Ademola Adeleke has warned the Independent National Electoral Commission against tampering with the materials used for the July 16 Osun State governorship poll in a bid to favour the All Progressives Congress. Adeleke, in a release signed by the chairman of his Media Management Team, Prince Diran Odeyemi, alleged that there were insinuations that the leadership of the APC was working on INEC to tamper with some electoral materials that would be used against his victory at the Election Petition Tribunal. The statement alleged that some APC leaders had been moving around local government offices of the Commission to liaise with the INEC officials who would tamper with some election materials kept in their custody. Adeleke called on the INEC chairman, Prof. Mahmood Yakubu, to direct the commission’s officials in Osun to submit all electoral materials to the state headquarters. The statement read in part, “There is a rumour milling round the state that the leadership of the All Progressive Congress (APC) is romancing INEC to tamper with some electoral materials that could be used against the victory of the governor-elect in their alleged proposed brief at the Election Petition Tribunal. “Some APC leaders have been moving around Local Government Offices of the Commission to liaise with the INEC officials to tamper with some of the Electoral Materials in their custody. “Senator Adeleke called on the INEC chairman, Professor Mahmood Yakubu, to call his officials in Osun State to order so as to prevent them from perpetrating the dastardly act.” You are afraid of your shadow – APC Responding, the Media Adviser to Osun APC chairman, Kola Olabisi, challenged Adeleke and the Peoples Democratic Party to prove their allegation against the APC. He said, “They said they have won the election, yet they are still afraid. That means they have skeletons in their wardrobe. They are just ranting. They should prove their allegation or stop ranting. They are afraid of their shadow.”