Super Eagles midfielder, Kelechi Nwakali, has accepted a contract from Spanish second division side, Sociedad Deportiva Ponferradina, the club announced on Thursday, PUNCH Sports Extra reports. Nwakali last played for another Spanish second division side Huesca, which terminated his contract in April this year. A statement released by Ponferradina on their website read, “Kelechi Nwakali (Owerri, Nigeria, 1998) is a new player for the SD Ponferradina. The new Blue and White midfielder will thus continue his career in LaLiga SmartBank, in which he has competed in the last two seasons with the AD Alcorcón and the SD Huesca. “Kelechi began his career at the Diamond Football Academy in his country. His qualities caught the attention of Arsenal FC, who signed him for their under-23 team in 2016. Later, he played on loan at the MVV Maastricht in the second division of the Netherlands and at the VVV Venlo, with whom he competed in the Dutch top flight. “In the 18-19 campaign he joined the FC Porto, who enrolled him in their B team. For the following campaign, he departed Arsenal FC and began his career in Spanish football. The SD Huesca signed him, which saw the club gain promotion to LaLiga Santander. “After making his debut in the top flight in the 20/21 season, in the winter market of that year, he joined AD Alcorcón on loan, where he became a regular starter and participated in 18 games. Last season, back at the SD Huesca, he played in 19 league games and two Copa del Rey games. In addition, he is a full international with Nigeria,” Ponferradina stated. After Nwakali’s contract was terminated by Huesca, he released an official statement through his Twitter account denouncing his treatment by SD Huesca. The 23-year-old, who joined Huesca in 2019 and made 33 appearances for the club before his exit, revealed that the club’s Sporting Director, Ruben Garcia, threatened to stop him from playing for the club if he joined up with the Eagles in Cameroon for the tournament which Garcia said was not too important. He was pressurised to sign a new contract in order to get paid the wages he was owed by the club. He tried to force his transfer out of the club and, finally, was suspended and banned from club training.