Deputy National Publicity Secretary of the ruling All Progressives Congress, Murtala Ajaka, on Sunday described the death of APC Zonal Women Leader, Kemi Nelson, as a big blow to the party. Nelson, a chieftain of the party in Lagos and an ally of APC Presidential Candidate, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, reportedly died on Sunday at the age of 66 after a brief illness. The sudden demise of the former executive director of Nigeria Social Insurance Trust Fund came as a shock to many Lagos APC supporters, especially at the grassroots level. Barely after her death was announced, Gboyega Akosile, Chief Press Secretary to Lagos State Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, paid homage to the late amazon in a tweet on Sunday.
He said, “We lost a dear soul to the cold hands of death earlier today. May the soul of the late Chief Mrs. Kemi Nelson, former Southwest Women Leader of the @OfficialAPCNg,” Akosule tweeted on Sunday. “Rest in Peace and may God grant her immediate family, friends and associates the fortitude to bear this loss.”
The national secretariat of the APC also released a statement to newsmen in Abuja on Sunday.
The statement, which was signed by Deputy National Publicity Secretary, Murtala Ajaka, described the late Nelson as an amiable personality, whose death came as a big loss to the APC family.
Ajaka also stated the deceased was a generous politician, loyal and dedicated to APC as a governing party.
The statement partly read, “Chief Nelson stood for unity and was in forefront of championing campaigns that favoured the lives of APC members and the masses. She never gave up on any responsibility. Her contributions to the successes of APC in Lagos state and Nigeria is beyond measure.”
“In 1999, she joined Alliance for Democracy (AD) and from 1999 to 2003, she served as the Lagos State Commissioner for Women Affairs and Poverty Alleviation during the tenure of Bola Ahmed Tinubu and has served as the Women Leader of Lagos State Chapter of APC and was later made the South West Women Leader of APC.
“She was the only female serving member of the Lagos State Governor’s Advisory Council (GAC).”
“Nelson was a remarkable woman that devoted her life to women’s grassroot mobilization, protecting the cause of women, and encouraging women active participation in politics and setting of goals.”
“The late women leader was a tireless advocate of women and youth emancipation. She stood for all those in the world of politics who are unable to realize their potential.
“In all situations, whether on the public stage or away from the cameras, she has passion for justice, and her deep desire for a better, fairer world for women in politics shone through, and by her attitude.
“She has proven it beyond doubt that women could play a great role in governance and can make a difference.
“Her tireless efforts earned her the APC Women Leader position, not just in Lagos state but the entire South-west. By that, the respect of thousands of women politicians across the states who were inspired by her commitment to party politics, democracy, women’s empowerment and eradication of poverty among women defined her person.”