The National Vice Chairman (North-West) of the ruling All Progressives Congress, Malam Salihu Lukman, on Wednesday night warned that the party cannot afford to make any costly mistake that could give the opposition an edge in the build-up to the 2023 general elections. Lukman told our correspondent that even the average Nigerian knows that the Peoples Democratic Party, Labour Party and New Nigerian Peoples Party as well as their standard-bearers are waiting for the APC to mismanage its campaign and lose the trust of Nigerians to take over. He said, “We need to begin to work for victory of the party in the North-West zone. We have made it very clear. The difference between APC in 2015 and Kwankwaso in 2023 is that APC was grounded in the minds of people. “You can see for yourself that in the case of other parties, including PDP and NNPP, they are hoping and waiting for us to mismanage ourselves on the basis of who we use and whatever we are not able to achieve. The reality is that we are not taking anything for granted. We are not dismissing people. We are going to work hard and that is why we consult among guys who are trying to organize.” The development is coming four days after the Presidential Candidate of APC, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, announced former Governor of Borno State, Senator Kashim Shettima as his substantive running mate. Tinubu’s declaration occurred less than an hour after the APC placeholder, Ibrahim Masari officially stepped down as vice presidential nominee. The national leader of the APC told newsmen that Shettima was the ‘chosen one’ while fielding questions shortly after his closed-door meeting with the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.) at his residence in Daura, Katsina State. Tinubu’s decision was said to have infuriated North West stakeholders including the governors, who felt the national leader of the party should, at least, inform them before making the premature announcement. Barely 24 hours after the unveiling of Shettima, the ruling party received barrage of criticisms from concerned Nigerians, religious leaders, opposition parties and the Christians Association of Nigeria. The criticisms were followed up by a gale of defection by stalwarts of the APC, who kicked against the Muslim-Muslim ticket. An indifferent Lukman, however, maintained that the situation was being blown out of proportion, especially by the opposition and critics of the party. This is even as he reassured that Nigerians will soon be convinced that the Muslim-Muslim ticket was not a discriminatory attempt to relegate any religion, party or section of the country. “My position has always been that politics is all about contest and managing interests. Certainly, the party leadership will have to consider all the factors before arriving at a decision. In the end, we have to convince Nigerians that Muslim-Muslim ticket or however you look at it, does not mean discrimination against any party candidate,” he said.