Determined to meet and surpass client expectations and as part of its continued growth across the West African markets, EY has announced the admission of three new partners and two associate partners into its team with immediate effect. In a statement, the firm said that the partners included, Omolola Esan for People Advisory Services, Temitope Oni and Audrey Obidike, both in Tax Service Lines, while the new Associate Partners are Surukat Alani, FRG, Assurance and Bukonla Oladapo for Consumer Industries, Assurance. According to statement, the admission of the partners is to also rebuild a better working world for the community, the people and all its business stakeholders. The statement said that Lola, an organisation design specialist, joined EY from a Big 4 firm in March 2018 with the mandate to establish HR Advisory in the Cluster. Her wealth of professional experience spans strategic human resources management and consulting, marketing, media and advocacy and journalism from different sectors in Nigeria, Switzerland and Mexico. Temitope, an experienced tax professional with about 12 years’ work experience, started his career in one of the top 4 accounting and professional service firms. He joined EY Nigeria as a transfer pricing senior in February 2014 and rose through the ranks. He is focused on providing transfer pricing compliance, controversy and planning services to various multinational & indigenous clients. Audrey, a tax and accounting professional with over 15 years’ professional work experience, joined EY Nigerian February 2007 for her National Youth Service. As a tax consultant, her focus spans book-keeping, financial close process and statutory reporting, as well as corporate tax compliance and tax controversy. Surakat, a graduate with a distinction in Accounting and a chartered accountant, joined EY in 2004 as an experienced associate in audit sub service line of Assurance and has progressed in his career over the years to an Associate Director level in the firm.