The General Overseer, Mountain of Holy Ghost Intervention Deliverance Ministry, Onitsha, Anambra State, Pastor Chukwuemeka Ohanaemere, popularly known as Odumeje, has reacted to the Anambra State Government over the demolition of part of his church building. The state Governor, Prof Chukwuma Soludo, had begun the demolition of some buildings marked ‘illegal building’ on Thursday, July 7, 2022. A part of the security post of Odumeje’s Land of Freedom church was affected during the exercise, with the government saying that the structure encroached on a huge canal. Members of the state task force stormed the location on Thursday to enforce the demolition leading to a face-off between the pastor and some of the task force members. A video showed how an overzealous task force member assaulted Odumeje who was trying to resist the demolition, a development that Soludo has condemned. Also, a Nollywood veteran, Rita Edochie, among others, knocked Soludo and the task force over the incident which affected many landlords in the area. Edochie, in her Instagram post, stated that the demolition of Odumeje’s church should not have been a priority to the state government, as “insecurity, bad roads and uncleanliness in Anambra State are there, but the first thing you (Soludo) rushed to do was to demolish Odumeje’s Church.” (sic) Reacting to the public outcry that greeted the incident, Soludo on July 9, assured that the officers involved in the incident would be fished out and sanctioned. He also noted that Odumeje would bear the cost of the demolition since he had received warnings from the government to take out the structure but refused. But Odumeje took to the official Facebook page of the church to react to the demolition, posting a video of himself in a car, and dancing to a tune in Igbo, which is loosely interpreted to mean, “The children of God, the good ones are in America, Europe, China, Asia, South Africa, Malaysia, Indonesia. “Odumeje, the wind that cannot be caught by the trap of the enemies! All your problems are gone when Jesus comes in. “Demons are afraid of me because of the glory of God. Black magic (juju) is afraid of me because of the glory of Jesus. When the power of God comes, sickness, others will run.”