The Explosive Ordnance Disposal – Chemical Biological Radiological Nuclear Command of the Nigeria Police Force, has trained no fewer than 192 of its personnel in Improvised Explosive Devices technique to tackle terrorism across the nation. Speaking on Thursday at the Police Mobile Force Training College, Ende Hills in Nasarawa, Eggon Local Government Area, during the graduation ceremony of the 192 personnel who were trained for one month, the Inspector-General of Police, Alkali Usman, said the training was in line with his vision on capacity building of police officers in the country. The IGP, who was represented by the Deputy Inspector-General of Police, Department of Operations, Bala Senchi, said, “This training has been put together to cover both the EOD and the CBRN areas. By virtue of this training, participants are now exposed to current methods and methodology in preventing, detecting, interdicting, and responding to threats associated with improvised explosive devices. preventing, detecting, interdicting, and responding to threats associated with improvised explosive devices. “It is on record that previously, over 1,500 personnel attached to the EOD-CBRN command were trained as Bomb Technicians and Investigators. My administration is keen on further developing the capacity of the command and equipping it with the requisite equipment and logistics to undertake its services with the highest standard of professionalism. “I, therefore, urge all the successful trainees to use the knowledge acquired in stemming the tide of unlawful use of explosives, chemical, biological, radiological, and nuclear materials to perpetrate crimes in the nooks and crannies of Nigeria.” On his part, the Commissioner of Police in charge of the Explosive Ordnance Disposal – Chemical Biological Radiological Nuclear Command, Zannah Shettima, expressed gratitude to the IGP for the approval and funding of the training for the 19th set of police personnel trained on the EOD-CBRN techniques. He warned the 192 trained personnel against engaging themselves in corrupt practices noting that, anyone found wanting would be sanctioned according to the laid down laws. “You all should avoid all forms of corrupt practices as anyone found wanting will be kicked out of the command without delay. So, you are advised to be disciplined, dedicated, and diligent to duty as well as display a high sense of professionalism when performing your duties,” CP Shettima said. One of the trained personnel, who spoke on behalf of the others, DSP Ayebusi Kure, thanked the IGP and the Commissioner of Police for organising the training, promising to use the skills they had gathered to secure the nation from all kinds of threats.