…mobilise support, ask members to obtain PVCs Several women in the All Progressives Congress have mobilised support for the presidential ambition of the party’s presidential candidate, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, in the 2023 elections. This is according to his support group under the aegis of the APC Nigeria Women in Politics. They, however, called on Tinubu to consider a woman as his running mate in the forthcoming presidential election. The national convener of the APC WIP, Princess Bolanle Kazeem, stated these in an interview with journalists at the Unity Fountain demonstration ground in Abuja, the Federal Capital Territory, during a mobilisation rally held for Tinubu and sensitisation of women to register and obtain their Permanent Voter Cards for them to vote in next year general election. She explained that the women decided to support the former Lagos State Governor because of his leadership qualities. Kazeem also said that the APC WIP, with members from across the 36 states of the country, was tired of politicians who promised to provide good governance to the masses during electioneering campaigns but ended up deceiving and disappointing them. According to her, Tinubu had a good track record in the provision of security and infrastructure as well as the management of the state economy for collective prosperity. Kazeem said, “We are expecting 35 per cent of Asiwaju’s cabinet to be made up of women, but if we get more than that, we don’t mind. This is so putting into consideration the input of women in elections. “Let the party give us our 35 per cent affirmative action. I want to say that the women in the country want a female Vice President. Let the party give us the VP position. We are making this demand on Tinubu too because we know he has sympathy for women. “We, the women, have agreed and are ready to give our time and support for our father, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu. As the APC women, we will garner and produce for him about 40 per cent of all the votes cast in the presidential election. “We believe he can be a good president and take Nigeria to the next level. That is why we are bringing ourselves together to canvass and mobilise for him and to vote for him. “In the areas of insecurity, economy, and infrastructure, we know Asiwaju has done this in Lagos and they are the smallest things for him to do for the nation.” Kazeem also said that the APC women’s group expected that Tinubu would fully implement the 35 per cent affirmative action for women inclusion in politics in Nigeria. She also called on all Nigerians who were yet to get their PVCs to do so immediately in order for them to vote credible leaders to office in the coming elections.