The governorship candidates of political parties participating in the July 16 poll in Osun State on Wednesday pledged to work towards a peaceful election and signed a peace accord. Two of the candidates who were accompanied by their party chairmen that signed the peace accord at the event organised by the National Peace Commission were the All Progressives Congress’ Adegboyega Oyetola; and the Peoples Democratic Party’s Ademola Adeleke. In his opening remarks, the convener, National Peace Accord, who also is the Bishop of Catholic Diocese of Sokoto, Matthew Kukah, harped on the need by the candidates to allow peace to reign during the poll. He also charged the Independent National Electoral Commission to remain an unbiased umpire in election matters, saying voter apathy was fuelled by lack of commensurate results for efforts by Nigerians to sustain democracy. Kukah said, “Increasingly, we are witnessing our democracy moving from democracy to plutocracy.  The sheer amount of money that has been spent, not only on campaigns, but just to pick up a piece of paper, to declare intention to participate, these things are unacceptable. Majority of our people remain hungry and sick and we cannot flaunt this wealth in a democracy. “So, while we are signing this peace accord, we are also encouraging the political actors and I am speaking to you all, there is a need to expand the frontiers of our freedom to participate in the processes concerning our country.” Also speaking at the event, INEC’s Chairman, Prof. Mahmood Yakubu, said the success of the peace accord would depend on the continuous support and commitment of political parties, their candidates, the INEC and security agencies. The INEC boss, however, restated INEC’s commitment to transparent and credible elections, adding that the commission has taken every step to ensure credible governorship election in the state and appealed to the parties and their candidates to abide by their pledge to ensure peace in appreciation of the work of the Committee in charge of the event. The traditional monarch, Ooni of Ife, Oba Adeyeye Ogunwusi in his goodwill message, at the same event, also told the gubernatorial candidates to rein in their supporters in the interest of peace during the poll. Others that signed the peace accord include; Adesoji Adeleke of Booth Party, Bayonle Ademola of Young Progressives Party, Saliu Oyelami of New Nigeria Peoples Party, Femi Adesuyi of Zenith Labour Party, Samuel Abegbe of National Rescue Movement, Busuyi Ayowole of Peoples Redemption Party, while Victor Akande, the state chairman of Accord Party represented the party’s candidate, Akin Ogunbiyi at the event.