The Arewa Christians and Indigenous Pastors Association on Wednesday described the presence of clerics and bishops at the official presentation of the All Progressives Congress’ Vice Presidential Candidate, Senator Kashim Shettima, as a media stunt and desperation for monetary gains. This is even as the association averred that none of the clerics in attendance at the event belongs to the North (Arewa), or is in registered Church as a Bishop in the hierarchy or order of Ecclesiastical or Apostolic ranking. Journalists assigned to cover Shettima’s unveiling as the running mate of the presidential flagbearer of the APC, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, had watched in amusement after the religious leaders showed up at the venue. Their presence seemingly caused a stir as onlookers and guests stared hard at them as they walked into the reception of the Musa Yar’Adua Centre dressed in their cassocks and habits, amid heavy security at the venue. Earlier, the media had been awash with reports from religious bodies urging Christian leaders to boycott the unveiling to drive home the point of their grievances. Special Assistant on Media and Communications to the Christians Association of Nigeria’s President, Pastor Adebayo Oladeji, had a few weeks ago condemned the APC’s Muslim-Muslim ticket. In a statement issued on Wednesday, ACIPA Chairman, Rev. Luke Shehu, disclosed that he was convinced the presence of the pastors and bishops was a desperate move to make ends meet while appealing to politicians. The statement read, “The attention of Arewa Christians and Indigenous Pastors Association have been drawn to the sacrilegious act of some who claim to be Christian Clerics in other to appease and launder desperate politicians. “We recall that in the past, aspersions were cast when some hirelings visited Aso Rock as Northern (Arewa) Christian Clerics. For the sake of clarity and avoidance of doubt, ACIPA has found out that none of the so-called Bishops or Pastors at the unveiling of the Vice Presidential candidate is from the North has or belongs to a registered Church as a Bishop in the hierarchy or order of Ecclesiastical or Apostolic ranking. “ACIPA regrets the unfortunate desperation of some to make ends meet while appealing to politicians and a media stunt. However, we wish to advise charlatans and hirelings to desist from denigrating the honourable office of the Clergy and bringing the titles to disrepute and dishonour. “For the avoidance of doubt, we wish to also state that the hirelings cannot restore the departed glory when the elect and Alter of the Most High, Jehovah have been insulted, disrespected and dishonoured. “We have since taken over and declared that God shall reign again above any other throne and man in the affairs and leadership of Nigeria.”