A non-governmental organisation, Elites Network for Sustainable Development, has signed a N26.5million infrastructure development fund with a philanthropy organisation, Gobir Organisation Foundation. EnetSud deputy coordinator, Lanre Osho, said that the NGO signed a Memorandum of Understanding with the foundation to channel the fund to the provision of infrastructure in all the wards in the 16 Local Government Areas in Kwara State. Osho said that the organisation has set goals in line with its Citizens Enlightenment and Mobilisation Program across the 193 wards in the 16 LGAs. He said, “It is a general knowledge that ENetsud is an anti-corruption civil society organization that promotes good governance, accountability and transparency. “We have noticed how corruption has led to huge infrastructural gaps in almost all of the 193 wards in Kwara state, which are evident by lack of potable water, affordable health care, a sound educational system, good road network among others, and high poverty rate and unemployment. “Our observation triggered us to design a program called ‘Citizens Enlightenment and Mobilisation Program’ which has assessment of Kwara communities as one of its activities,” he said. He noted that the CEMP program has been in place since the year 2020 and has been deployed to solve many problems in Kwara communities. “The impact of our CEMP program is what attracted the attention of our partner, Gobir Organization Foundation, to sign a Memorandum of Understanding worth N26.5 million to properly assess the needs of all the 193 wards in Kwara state”, said the deputy coordinator. The acting Director of Community Services of ENetSuD, Fatima Dikko, stated that the creation of CEMP has presented the people in the rural communities the opportunity to know their rights and entitlement to the government. Speaking on what inspired him to partner with ENetSuD, the Chief Executive Officer of Gobir Foundation, Yakubu Gobir, said, “Our foundation was primarily set up to improve the quality of livelihoods amongst the people of Kwara State. “For the past five years, we have impacted thousands of beneficiaries through results-driven solutions and social investments in the human capacity of our people. “Our core mandate is to reduce inequalities and drive innovation within the healthcare and education sectors; and poverty alleviation by supporting enterprise. “The Citizens Enlightenment and Mobilization Program is aligned with our vision of providing data-backed solutions to our local problems. “The most crucial component of philanthropy of any kind is not only delivering it to intended beneficiaries; but also ensuring that the aid being rendered is proportional to their needs at every point in time. “This concept of contextual social investment is one that inspired us and must be prioritized government at all levels.” Gobir, who is also a governorship candidate of the Young Progressive Congress in the forthcoming 2023 election in the state said his partnership with ENetSuD, precedes the election period, adding, “My partnership with ENetSuD has nothing to do with my political ambition. It is about the development of our beloved state.”