DENNIS NAKU examines the presidential bids of successive governors of Rivers State and how none of them has been able to realise that ambition since the return to democracy in 1999 Politicians are mostly known to be ambitious. That partly explains why they want to move from one office to a higher one and, if allowed, perpetuate themselves in office. In Nigeria, the pattern is somewhat predictable. The most calculable is when governors finish their second term. They want to aspire to be president of Nigeria or retire to the Senate. In between the two, some jostle for their party’s vice presidential slot. Since former President Olusegun Obasanjo finished his tenure in 2007, governors – serving or former – seem to dominate the contest, starting with the primaries. While a few of them have been successful, talk of the late Umaru Yar’Adua and Goodluck Jonathan, many others have failed in that bid. It is somewhat striking that in Rivers State, the Treasure Base of the Nation, all the governors the state has had since 1999, including the incumbent, Nyesom Wike, have made attempts to occupy that number one seat but none of them has succeeded till date. In fact, in the ongoing electioneering, the incumbent and his successor, Rotimi Amaechi, contested the presidential primaries of their respective political parties. The first to try was Dr Peter Odili, who was the governor of the state between 1999 and 2007. His influence and political dynasty in the state has remained strong for the past two decades and counting. Known as a cerebral, amiable and unassuming politician, gifted with the power of oratory, Odili was known for his great sense of leadership and finesse. He bestrode the state like a colossus and commanded huge respect within and outside the state. He was popularly referred to as the golden governor. At the twilight of his administration in 2007, he unveiled his interest to become Nigeria’s president and he indeed worked towards it. He visited different parts of the country to seek the support of relevant stakeholders. He was even considered to be a frontliner in the contest, and at the time, there was almost a guarantee that anyone who emerged as the candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party would likely be the president. However, shortly before the party’s convention, things went awry for him and his numerous supporters. To date, many watchers of political events believe Obasanjo, who wielded enormous power at the time, scuttled Odili’s chances at the last minute. There were reports that the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, headed by Mallam Nuhu Ribadu, was in the picture of how Odili was literally forced to step down. It was a spanner in the works to a promising and bourgeoning political career that would have been crowned with the presidency but it eluded him. Late Umaru Yar’Adua was favoured by Obasanjo and he eventually became the president. Whether their motivation is based on the need to serve or there are other motivations is another subject of, politicians are, more often than not, ambitious out of the need to offer themselves at a higher level Amaechi was the governor between 2007 and 2015. He was a strong ally and a political godson to Odili. While Odili served as the governor for eight years, Amaechi was the Speaker of the state House of Assembly for the same period. He (Amaechi) was also the Chairman, Conference of Speakers of State Legislatures of Nigeria. By dint of hard work or luck or both, in 2007 he succeeded Odili as the substantive governor of the state in 2007 after an interesting legal battle that ended at the Supreme Court where what Obasanjo then referred to as K-leg was straightened and Amaechi’s elder cousin, Sir Celestine Omehia, who was the governor for six months, was sacked from office by the apex court. Unlike his predecessor, Amaechi didn’t nurse the ambition of becoming president while he was leaving office as governor in 2015, at least none known to the public. Amaechi is someone some people would describe as the proverbial cat with nine lives. His entry and exit as governor was quite eventful. He initially fled to Ghana when he was denied the opportunity to fly the party’s flag through substituted means and while leaving office his obvious frosty relationship with the then President, Goodluck Jonathan, almost put him in trouble. He had dumped the PDP at the time. Meanwhile, the manner he rallied support for the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), since a general election was beckoning, was the respite. Amaechi’s relationship with Buhari blossomed to the extent that he bagged a traditional title in Daura, Buhari’s home town, and was turbaned in February 2022 as Dan Amanar Daura (trusted son of Daura). Many keen watchers of political events believed there was something big in the offing for Amaechi following that development and the rumours continued until he declared for the presidency. Many people in his camp believed Buhari would support him but the presidential ticket of the ruling party eluded him, bringing an end to his presidential ambition for 2023 to an end. For Wike, a former two-time executive chairman of Obio/Akpor Local Government Area of the state and former National President of the Association of Local Governments of Nigeria, who later became Amaechi’s Chief of Staff during his first tenure as governor, he was a dominant force in Amaechi’s administration and wielded huge influence in the cabinet and the state at large. He (Wike) was an extraordinary chief of staff who commanded huge influence. He later became the Minister of State for Education under Jonathan. With Jonathan’s support, he became the governor of the state in 2015, succeeding Amaechi. Prior to the 2019 general elections, Wike supported his friend and colleague, Governor Aminu Tambuwal of Sokoto State, to clinch the PDP ticket. But in 2022, things changed and Wike decided to test his popularity as he threw his hat into the ring. He contested the PDP presidential ticket as the clamour for a southern president in 2023 gathered momentum. The most interesting spectacle perhaps was that Governor Wike felt betrayed by his Sokoto State counterpart, Tambuwal, whom he supported in 2019. During the 2022 convention, Tambuwal stepped down and asked his delegates to vote for Atiku, who again clinched the presidential ticket. Like those before him, Wike lost the presidential bid, a development that didn’t sit well with him. He later bemoaned the betrayal by some of his southern colleagues. The Chancellor of the International Society for Social Justice and Human Rights, Dr Omenazu Jackson, who spoke on the failed presidential bids of the trio, described the attempt by successive Rivers State governors to be President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria as a ‘well-articulated ambition’. While commending the trio for launching out to the nation, Jackson said, “Since Nigerians feel it is not yet time for them to be president, my advice is that they shouldn’t relent. Others too from the state who are interested should also not relent. Our problem is that you launch out, and you withdraw. Most of them, like Dr. Odili, after the first attempt when he left Government House, refused to contest again and went home. It shouldn’t be that way. “Now, Wike and Amaechi have tried. My advice is that they should sustain the tempo and put up conduct that will increase the support from other sections of the country. I believe Rotimi Amaechi gave a good account of himself; just as Nyesom Wike did in his political party. So, they should keep the flag flying and keep hope alive. Someday, sometime, they may get there.” He said the refusal of delegates from their respective regions to support them also contributed to their defeat. On his part, the Chairman, Rivers State Civil Society Organisation, Enefaa Georgewill, raised the issue of distraction, saying any governor eyeing the presidency should first complete his tenure in order not to be distracted in his constitutional duty of delivering the dividends of democracy to the people. Georgewill said, “It is the right and privilege of every Nigerian, including the former Rivers State governors, to contest any elective office in the country. However, it is my opinion that given the kind of resources at the disposal of these governors, they more often than not abandon governance to pursue their personal ambition. These have had very serious effects on the state. “To make it worse, they have not been able to clinch their parties’ tickets in all of these attempts. For us in the civil society, we advise that those who vie for elective offices should exhaust the particular office they have been opportune to occupy before thinking of gunning for another.” He described the presidential race in Nigeria as a very expensive venture that requires proper calculation and assessment to know their strength. He said they also tend to attract many enemies to themselves. He added, “For instance, within the period Governor Nyesom Wike was contesting the presidential election, you saw how dirty Port Harcourt and its environs were. That was because there was nobody supervising anybody and many other issues that were disturbing to us.” Also, the President, Niger Delta Coalition against Violence, Christian Lekia, stated that Odili, Wike and Amaechi were qualified to vie for the number one position in the country, but said they failed to learn from the mistakes of those before them. Christian said, “To me, the aspiration of successive governors of Rivers State – from Dr Peter Odili to Chibuike Amaechi and Nyesom Wike – to govern Nigeria failed, not because they were not qualified, but due to their inability to learn from the mistakes of those who aspired previously. “Rather than uniting and promoting internal democracy within their respective political parties, they all impose their preferred candidates, party men and women, thus creating room for cracks and betrayals within the party. How can anyone think of succeeding at the larger political space with a divided and bleeding house or home front? “They were largely victims of some sort of ethno-tribal conspiracy by majority tribes against the minorities, a category they all fall into. Religious bias, mistrust as well as their erroneous assumption that money was everything needed to guarantee their success at the centre.” Also speaking on the subject matter, an activist and the leader, Southern Nigeria’s People Assembly, Livingstone Wechie, corroborated Lekia’s position. Wechie explained that part of the challenge bothered on the Nigerian political character of status, especially the domineering influence of the northern hegemony, which he opined called for the renegotiation of the Nigerian union. Wechie said, “Basically, that question still bothers on the Nigerian political character of who are you, where do you come from and who is your father? The way the Nigerian state is currently configured, it is not yet allowed by the northern hegemony and those who have dominated the leadership structure of Nigeria to allow those who come from this axis (minority region), to occupy such a position (presidency). “Now, this bothers on the demand for the renegotiation of Nigeria’s union. The fear is that if power is genuinely handed down to people from the area that have been agitating for the renegotiation of Nigeria and restructuring, they may build into the agenda of restructuring and that’s why the statement, ‘Nigeria’s unity is not negotiable’ has always been maintained. “It is important that every leader of this state should properly channel all the resources that are generated during the period of his administration into the development of our state and concentrate less on presidential ambition because it has continued to fritter away the resources of the state and continuously we are being taken for granted.” He added that the reliance on money was not enough to guarantee victory. “That arrogance of ‘Rivers money’ has continued to drive them to believe that because Rivers State is super rich, they can use our money to get power at the centre, but it cannot work because of the view the North has about our people,” he added. From the foregoing, it could be deduced that the people of the state and their collective wealth suffer for these ambitions, given the huge funds needed to prosecute the exercise, starting with the primaries, whereas there is more to winning the presidential ticket and the general election than money.