The Presidential candidate of the Labour Party, Peter Obi, has urged Christians in Nigeria to pray that God touches the hearts of politicians, so that they can use public money for public good. He insisted that public office holders should desist from abusing the grace given to them to govern Nigerians, and the confidence the electorates reposed in them. Obi spoke in Umuahia, the Abia State capital, on Saturday during a non-denominational prayer organized by the Catholic Diocese of Umuahia to pray for him. He pointed out that it was unacceptable and unfortunate that millions are not sure where their next meal would come from, even though the country was blessed with an enormous amount of natural resources. Obi maintained that Nigeria “must stop being a consuming nation and become a producing nation, to save the country from the economic danger that lies ahead”. “All I’m saying is that you should go and verify and ask those who want to become your president what they did and what they want to do. “Nigeria is a country with 9,23000 square kilometres of land, and a population of 200 million people. God blessed us with oil and other resources. We have over 100 million people living in poverty. “But to show that we are not a producing country, last year, our total export including oil was less than 30 billion dollars, that is why we can’t find dollars today. He claimed that Vietnam was on a three hundred and thirty-five thousand square kilometres of land, with a population of 100 million, but their total export last year was three hundred and four billion dollars. “I told the Governor of the Abia State today that if I become president, I can assure you that in two years our exports will improve because what we need is government support for our people to produce and export to make a living. That will create a lot of jobs for our people. Speaking, the governorship candidate of the LP, Alex Otti commended the church for organizing the prayer session for Obi and the LP candidates in the state, adding that Obi was in Abia to be the guest of honor at the Alex Otti scholarship foundation 2022 banquet dinner.