A recent photograph published on the front page of The PUNCH summarises the shabby state of public education infrastructure in Nigeria today. The execrable learning environment of primary school pupils in Ofumwegbe, in the Ovia South-West Local Government Area of Edo State, is replicated across the 36 states and the Federal Capital Territory. It is a clear depiction of the rot in the public education sector. Therefore, there is an urgent need to invest heavily in education infrastructure and improve the learning environment. The photograph graphically captured schoolchildren sitting on the bare floor, without chairs and desks in a dingy classroom. In today’s digital world, this rubbishes whatever educational policy the Edo State Government claims to be pursuing. But the problem also exposes a country that utterly misplaces its priorities. Such ugly sights are common across the country. Adopted as a fundamental human right since 1948, the United Nations prioritised access to, and universal basic education under its Sustainable Development Goals. It declared, “Education enables upward socioeconomic mobility and is a key to escaping poverty.” Nigeria has shamefully missed the target date of 2015 to achieve universal access. Nigeria’s flawed 1999 Constitution reinforces the right to education; requiring the government to provide free, compulsory, and universal basic education. Falling under the concurrent legislative list, it is the duty of both federal and state governments to create the right environment for universal and quality education. But what obtains nationwide is pathetic. Most public primary and secondary schools are decrepit, featuring leaky or absent roofs, broken fences, and worn-out doors and windows.  Shamefully, 50 per cent of public schools in Nigeria lack basic furniture says the Universal Basic Education Commission. UNESCO classifies Nigeria as one of the countries “where teaching takes place without learning.” In April, a national daily published photos of the sordid condition of a 37-year-old primary school in Kagarko LGA, Kaduna State. Anytime it rains, teachers and pupils numbering 300, flee home because the school has no roof. The LGEA School, Wuseli Central, Plateau State, reportedly over 50 years old, and with about 200 pupils, suffers similar neglect. It lacks basic amenities, including toilets; pupils defecate in the bush and teachers use the only pit latrine available. Late last year, the roof of the dilapidated Idaw River Primary School 1, Enugu South LGA, Enugu State, collapsed, injuring 10 pupils. Rather than redress these abject conditions, most state governors fritter scarce resources on ephemerals and white elephants. They maintain retinues of redundant aides, presidential lodges, pay undeserved pensions to ex-governors and their deputies, sponsor religious pilgrimages, build unviable airports and bridges to nowhere, and donate public funds capriciously. Between 2017 and 2019, 17 airports built by state governors incurred a combined deficit of N44.39 billion because of disuse. A governor in the South-East employed 38,000 political aides on the pretext of “fighting poverty.” During the recent party primaries, governors leased private jet, criss-crossed the country, splashing billions of public funds. The Socio-Economic Rights and Accountability Project in February threatened to sue the 36 state governors over the parlous state of education in their states, while N51 billion of the UBEC grants remained un-accessed since 2019 due to states failing to provide their counterpart funding. This is irresponsible leadership. Meanwhile, the world is leaving Nigeria behind. With its literacy rate of 62.02 per cent, Nigeria is way behind the conservative Arab world. Qatar has a literacy rate of 93.46 per cent; United Arab Emirates, 95.5 per cent; Kuwait, 96.46 per cent. Ghana’s is 79 per cent, and South Africa, 95 per cent. In 2022, UNICEF said about 18.5 million children, majority of who are girls, lack access to education in Nigeria. This is a sharp increase from the 10.5 million estimated in 2021. There must be a radical change of attitude. All tiers of government should provide quality, well-trained and motivated teachers at the state and LG levels. Being a federation, the main responsibility lies with the state governments, while the Federal Government provides financial, technical, research, training, and manpower support through multiple aid and intervention programmes. Public schools are wretched because only the children of the less privileged attend them. When the defunct Action Group ran the old Western Region, children of public officials were mandated to attend public schools. This made the schools better, producing an excellent civil service that drove rapid development in the region. Unfortunately, the South-West, previously the pacesetter in education, has retrogressed following years of poor leadership and neglect. The Lagos State Commissioner for Education, Folashade Adefisayo, said registration of private schools in the state increased by 127 per cent from 2019 to 2020. In 2020 alone, 1,660 private schools were registered in the state. The public schools are no longer competitive. Even children of the poor are avoiding them to patronise mushrooming private schools, a clear evidence of governance failure. The central government should manage its intervention funds more effectively. States, in addition to statutory funding, should also have intervention funds, and return all acquired mission and private schools to willing and capable original owners. Visionary leaders and political will are required: the old Western Region had these. Rwanda’s novel education policies adopted and constantly refined since 1998 feature massive funding, equipping, and harnessing of ICT and low-cost renewable energy. Consequently, adult literacy rate, records Knoema, grew at an annual rate of 12.62 per cent between 1978 and 2018, rising from 38.2 per cent to 73.2 per cent; youth literacy is 86.5 per cent compared to Nigeria’s 75.03 per cent, as recorded by Trading Economics. In budgeting, education should be accorded priority. The World Bank emphasises its importance, saying “it drives long-term economic growth, spurs innovation, strengthens institutions, and fosters social cohesion.” Public schools should raise vibrant Parent-Teacher Associations, agitate for quality education, challenge governors and lawmakers, and demand a conducive learning environment. They should apply all lawful pressure, including public marches and symbolic protests on state legislatures and governors, demanding quality public education, accountability and responsible governance.