The All Progressive Congress in the Northwest has expressed concern over intra-party crises rocking the party ahead of the 2023 general elections in the zone. The Northwest zone comprises Kaduna, Kano, Katsina, Jigawa,  Kebbi, Sokoto and Zamfara states. The Zonal Publicity Secretary of the party, Musa Mailafiya, while addressing newsmen in Kaduna on Saturday, warned that intra-party squabbles might rob the party of victory in the 2023 general elections if left unattended to. But Mada noted that several steps were being taken at the moment to bring unity and peace to the party in the zone by way of reconciling aggrieved members. According to him, the National Chairman of the party, Senator Abdullahi Adamu is on top of the situation as far as the reconciliation of aggrieved members is concerned. He added that the zone is in full support of the Chairman in uniting the party ahead of the 2023 election. He said, “I called for this engagement with you to discuss efforts being made and steps taken to strengthen our dear party the All Progressive Congress in our zone, and of course, the country in general against 2023 general elections and beyond. “It is evidently clear that at the zonal level we set the ball rolling by initiating a number of programmes and policies that will help retain our party’s popularity in the zone. “In situations like this there are issues you make known to the public and there are strategies you will not allow to fly on the media for the fact that if it gets to the opposition it may end up being of no use for you. It is like allowing your enemies to know all of your strategies in a war. “One of our strategies that are being publicly known is our reconciliation drive among our party members. That step is necessary because any political party as strong as APC anywhere in the world must watch its steps before and after its primary elections. “This is of course necessary because there will be those that will be offended in one way or the other. Their grievances might be either legitimate or illegitimate, notwithstanding as a party you must console them, you must reconcile with them, you must carry them along and you must give them back their sense of belonging which they might have lost in the process.”