THE shambolic state of Nigeria’s security apparatus was again brutally laid bare when Islamic terrorists invaded the Kuje Medium Security Custodial Centre in Abuja, freeing their incarcerated fighters, other hardened criminals, convicted persons and suspects awaiting trial for various offences. The ease of the attack, the failure of intelligence and the inability of the security agencies to mount a quick response, demonstrate the increasing helplessness of the government to protect the country and the people. Moreover, the government has failed to take effective measures to protect custodial centres despite series of attacks on them in recent years by criminals and terrorists, as well as rioters. Such incompetence has grave implications. The President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), needs to shake up the system radically and compel efficient protection of custodial centres across the country and recovery and re-arrest of all the escaped terrorists, felons, and other suspects. The Kuje jailbreak is one too many and an avoidable national calamity. First, it should be a no-brainer that custodial centres housing terrorists should be extensively fortified, especially given reports that there was intelligence that the facility would be attacked, and incidents of such attacks on jails in the recent past. The government confirmed that all the 64 Boko Haram terrorists detained in the facility were among the 879 inmates that escaped. Buhari demonstrated his trademark poor leadership when he visited the site, wondering aloud how all institutions and personnel failed and allowed the outrage. His responsibility was to immediately demand answers from the relevant officials, sack some, suspend others and roll out tough new measures. Instead, he merely “lamented” and moved on! How tragic. The country is still counting the cost. The Nigerian Correctional Service said four inmates died, 16 others sustained injuries, while several vehicles were set ablaze. The PUNCH reported that since 2015, about 4,443 inmates, including terrorists have escaped from captivity. Kuje is the ninth successful jailbreak in Buhari’s seven years. In any other country, the Minister of Interior, Rauf Aregbesola, the Controller-General of the NCoS, Haliru Nababa, and heads of other concerned agencies would have been fighting to retain their jobs or resigned in the face of such monumental serial failures. Buhari’s posers at the scene should not end there. “How can terrorists organise, have weapons, attack a security installation, and get away with it; how did the defence at the prison fail to prevent the attack; how many personnel did you have on duty; how many of them were armed; were there guards on the watchtower; what did they do; does the CCTV work?” He should extract answers immediately and evict indicted officials from office. Aregbesola’s statement a week after that he had directed the CG of the NCoS to “double his efforts in intelligence gathering to fortify and prevent breaches to the custodial centres beyond the use of arms and force” is belated and failed to convey the gravity of the crisis. The system should be in emergency mode. Nigerians are hurting from bad governance and worsening insecurity; they should not continue to pay with their lives for the government’s laxity. Indeed, Buhari affirmed many Nigerians’ conviction that he and his team are overwhelmed when he said at his Daura, Katsina State,  hometown on Monday that he could not wait to leave given the quantum of challenges facing the country. Most Nigerians can hardly wait either for his term to end. Incessant jailbreaks must be stopped. Some states battling escalated insecurity are among those that have experienced jailbreaks. The Owo massacre during which 40 worshippers in a church were killed and 80 left injured occurred after a jailbreak at the Owo Correctional Centre, Ondo State. The bloodshed in Imo State became worse after the Owerri Correctional Centre jailbreak. In 2020, after the jailbreaks orchestrated by hoodlums who hijacked #EndSARS protest, some of the escapee inmates promptly returned to crime. One emerging from the Oko Correctional Centre ran back to his village on the same day he escaped to kill a prosecution witness in the trial that landed him in jail. Three other escapees from the Benin Correctional Centre, Edo State, snatched an SUV, while another two also stole a car. These facilities should be fortified without delay. The new correctional centres government says it is constructing should be given increased attention. There should be reforms to decongest the existing facilities. The centres should not be breeding grounds for criminals. The Federal Government, in alliance with the states, should launch a determined manhunt for the fleeing criminals. It should design a new security arrangement for all the correctional centres. Closed circuit television cameras should be installed at all strategic points in all the centres. The watchtowers should be fortified and manned appropriately. There should be a change of attitude by public officials from ‘bench warming’ to service delivery and problem-solving. While he was Interior Minister, Abdulrahman Dambazzau publicly acknowledged all the lapses at Kuje, but never solved the problems. His successor, Aregbesola, should do so. Similarly, the NCoS needs to be overhauled. It should never have housed terrorists in a medium security custodial centre. If terrorists, hardened, unrepentant murderers, are in placed in a medium security facility, who are those in maximum security custodial centres? The narrative that judges remand suspects in Kuje for ease of bringing suspects to court during trial can no longer stand. There should be massive, effective security arrangements at all detention centres across the country henceforth. All those who escaped must be recaptured. Allegations of involvement of state officials in the attack should be dispassionately investigated and thoroughly dealt with. The judiciary should also play its role by expediting criminal trials. The Administration of Criminal Justice Act 2015 should be implemented to the letter. Renewed efforts must be made to secure the correctional centres for the safety of the country and the citizens.