In a bid to ensure the recruitment of qualified candidates into various positions, a human resource consulting firm, Proten International, has launched a candidate assessment platform called PAss. According to a statement by the organisation, the platform provides an unlimited number of testing options ranging from logical aptitude, essay, multiple choices, and mathematical coding, among others. It said the tests were administered via the online examination platform. The statement read in part, “Proten Assessment, PAss, provides an unlimited number of testing options ranging from logical, aptitude, essay, multiple choices, mathematical, coding, job-based to even academic subjects and a host of others. These tests are administered via the online examination platform that powers PAss by a remote proctoring system that monitors candidates’ browning behaviour to eliminate possibilities of malpractice. Other benefits of PAss include cloud storage of submissions to prevent data loss in the event of Internet outage or interruption, formula editor interface for mathematical calculations, multilingual setup, automated and real-time assessment evaluation, as well as deep reporting and recommendations” It added, “In today’s HR and recruitment industry, greater relevance is placed on skills and competence, rather than resume and certifications. Data from recent studies have shown that up to 78 percent of resumes are misleading and up to 46percent contain actual lies. This trend, therefore, warrants the need for both job and academic candidates to go through some form of competency assessment during the selection process. It is in line with reversing this trend that Proten International launched its candidate assessment service, Pass” The statement quoted the Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer, Proten international, Mr Ope Onaboye, as saying that the platform would help employers make less costly selection. He said, “The goal of PAss is to help employers, businesses and education providers make better and less costly selection decisions by conducting skill and competency assessments.” “PAss is now the first candidate assessment platform in Nigeria to explore a pay-as-you-use pricing model. We’ve also expanded the use-cases to not just recruiters, but also enabling schools conduct exams and NGOs or scholarship boards conduct tests. These innovations will surely democratise and disrupt the industry because PAss is truly for everyone,”