The late Alaafin of Oyo, Oba Lamidi Adeyemi’s Director of Media and Publicity, Bode Durojaiye has described the dismissal of some staff members at the Alaafin’s palace by the Atiba Local Government Area of Oyo State, as illegal. Oba Adeyemi III died on April 22, 2022 and was laid to rest the following day. The PUNCH learnt that the local government, having received recommendations from the Bashorun, Chief Ayoola Layinka, dismissed some staff members who were employed by the late monarch. Durojaiye, in a statement made available to The PUNCH, said, “Shortly after the 40-day state burial for the late monarch, which was sponsored by the conscientious and God-fearing Executive Governor of the pace setter state, His Excellency Engineer Oluwaseyi Makinde, the Atiba Local Government, which is in charge of the Palace, directed orally that myself and some other staffers’ appointments had been terminated. “On personal enquiry, a top official said the decision came as a directive from the Basorun of Oyo, who is also the acting Alaafin. “For the record, all staffers of the palace were engaged as casuals by the late monarch, as no one was offered a letter of appointment. For easy payment of salary, the late Alaafin attached all his workers separately to the three local governments (Atiba, Oyo East, and Oyo West). “While I and the head of the administrative unit were attached to the Oyo West Local Government, others were taken to the remaining two local governments. “Is the Atiba Local Government saying the job of a Media and Publicity Director is not essential? What, then, is the rationale behind relieving me of my duty?” The Chairman, Atiba Local Government, Mojisola Olakojo, who confirmed that some members of staff were relieved of their duties, stated that only the needed ones were retained. “Why would we have members of staff in the palace when there is no Kabiyesi? We only have a few staff members left there, which include two secretaries and the late Kabiyesi’s personal assistants. They are entitled to be there to receive visitors to the palace and report to us any emergencies,” she said. Also, the Bashorun, who doubles as the acting Alaafin, Chief Ayoola Layinka, stated, “The members of staff that are there now, I recommended them to the local government because there is a certain number of people that are expected to be in the palace. We cannot leave the palace to everybody.”