The Victor and Winifred Awosika Foundation has donated a well-equipped vocational centre and a playground with modern instruments and facilities in tune with children’s special needs to the Maryland Inclusive School in Lagos State. According to a statement on Thursday, the Chairman of Lagos State Universal Basic Education Board, Wahab Alawiye-King, commended the foundation during a handing-over event held in Lagos, adding that the foundation has continued to show how private individuals and organisations can support the government to bridge the education gap in the country. “You have shown us that the government alone cannot do it. In your own magnanimity, you have been able to empower us, providing equipment that will make teaching and learning seamless for the inclusive unit of this school, and we know the kind of pupils we cater to in this unit,” he said. The Director of VAWA, Bankole Awosika, explained that the gesture aimed to improve the quality of education and provide vocational training for pupils with special needs in a bid to prepare them for future careers. Awosika said, “After initial visits to the school to see the children and assess their needs, we embarked on the Maryland Inclusive School projects to provide a vocational room, so the students could learn trades such as barbing, hairdressing, tailoring, baking, and fine arts.” “These vocational trades are carefully chosen as they encourage the use of their hands to further develop their psychomotor skills. In addition, we have renovated and equipped the music room with instruments like drums, keyboards, other local instruments, television, a public address system, and a satellite system, so that the students can harness their creative talents. “We also upgraded the playground, by introducing the trampoline, see-saw, slide, and a merry-go-round. Moving forward, we are providing an occupational therapist and instructors to help teach the children the various trades. This is in addition to tilling and painting the classrooms, as well as providing a driver for school bus runs.” 