The Cross River State Governor, Prof Ben Ayade, has sworn in Justice Sampson Anjor as the substantive President of the state’s Customary Court of Appeal. Until the swearing-in, Justice Anjor was in the acting capacity since April 2022. The governor also swore in six new permanent secretaries, one of them being his former Chief of Protocol, Sir Emmanuel Okon. In his remarks during the event, which was held at the Executive Chamber of the Governor’s Office, Calabar, at the weekend, Governor Ayade charged the newly sworn-in public officers to discharge their duties by staying true to their oath of office. He explained that the appointments, despite the huge financial implication to the state, were occasioned by his belief in career growth. He said, “I am happy to have the President of the Customary Court of Appeal sworn in, in a substantive capacity today. I am also happy to swear in new permanent secretaries. “I am particularly happy because at the end of someone’s career, you must seek growth and today I am an agent of growth to the ones being sworn in. “We realise that the financial burden of these appointments is huge, but you don’t give because you have but because you care. “And so, strengthening ourselves by this audacity of care, we believe it is the right thing to do.” Ayade further said that he was also moved by a sense of compassion, justice, and fair play in making some of the appointments, adding, “I am aware that some people being sworn in today have less than a month in office. But I do so because I know the cumulative impact and the significance of this promotion at this time. “Sometimes, people raise concerns that why are you promoting someone who has less than six months in office but do not forget that the same person has suffered injustice for too long having been in one position for over six years. So for us, when you dispense justice, no matter how late, it is better you dispense the justice indeed. “I congratulate you and charge you to be above board in discharging your duties, do this by staying true to your oath of office.” Speaking on behalf of the new Permanent Secretaries, Asikpo Okon, expressed gratitude to the governor for promoting them to the pinnacle of their careers in the civil service. He cited himself as an example and described the governor as a vessel of grace and favour in the hands of God.