The Conference of Concerned Christians of Nigeria has joined Nigerians and critics of the ruling party in condemning the appearance of some alleged clerics, which it said masqueraded as bishops and pastors at Wednesday’s unveiling of Senator Kashim Shettima as Vice Presidential Candidate of the All Progressives Congress. The presence of the clergymen and women had been greeted by public outcry after their viral photos and videos from the event surfaced on the Internet, with some people deriding them as either mechanics or yam sellers, an allegation that the Tinubu Campaign Organisation has denied. In a statement jointly signed by CCCN National President, Rev Bitrus Chollom and National Secretary, Pastor James Alkali, the Christian organisation challenged the APC to disclose the names of the ‘Bishops, and their respective denominations, to allow for scrutiny. Chollom disclosed that it was an admixture of disbelief and shock when dignitaries, including journalists, watched as the ‘so-called bishops and pastors’ lined up in what appeared like theatrical projection of the medieval kind – to give a fake seal to the heavily-criticised same faith ticket of the ruling APC. While maintaining that the Muslim/Muslim ticket is the height of “audacious impunity”, the Christian group said only an uncultured child will seek to undermine their parents. The statement warned that harsh judgement awaits those that seek to embarrass the Body of Christ, for a mess of pottage. It, nonetheless, vowed to make public the identities of all those they described as “interlopers and usurpers”, in a bid to convince Nigerians that the APC – as presently constituted – is, indeed, a scam that happened to the country. The statement read, “For instance, many, who witnessed the ‘show-of-shame’, wondered why true ‘men of God’, who are worth their salt, will shove and push, in order to gain entrance to the Shehu Musa Yar’Adua Centre, venue of the unveiling ceremony. “On various social media platforms, including Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram, angry stakeholders in the New Nigerian Project, had described the fake attendees variously as “fake”, “charlatans”, “impostors”, “spoilers”, “interlopers”, “pretenders”, and the like. “Our position is accentuated by no less a personality than a social critic and renowned pastor, Reno Omokri, who said those that showed up at the Shehu Yar’Adua event, were neither pastors, nor members of the CAN. “These are not CAN members that showed up at Tinubu’s Shettima unveiling. These are actually SCAM members. The real CAN members held a protest against the Muslim-Muslim ticket yesterday. The SCAM members belong to a different body! “Ask APC for their names. Ask them to show their congregations. Who do they represent? Look at the photos. “Some of them do not even know how to wear their frocks well. And by the way, what are so-called bishops doing at a political rally…?” Chollom challenged the APC presidential flagbearer, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, to disclose the identities of the clerics in cassocks and chasuble to the world, arguing that they were so unsure of themselves, by virtue of what transpired during their ‘shopping-in’.” He noted that as a responsible body that serves to preserve the ends of the Christian Association of Nigeria, the CCCN will deploy all legal and legitimate resources at our disposal, to unveil the veil that the detractors of Christianity thought will shield their identities. “To the charlatans, we advise you to repent of your evil outing, denounce the choreography that characterised the event, to serve as recompense. “May we use this opportunity to assure the CAN, and by extension, the majority of Nigerians, that the will of God will definitely prevail come 2023, regardless of whatever gimmicks the APC and their presidential candidate may be up to. “The General elections, no doubt, will serve as referendum on bad governance, occasioned by insecurity, biting poverty, hunger and excruciating concerns that debase humanity under the President Muhammadu Buhari-led government”. “We are happy that the CAN has since reacted to the charade of endorsement that happened in Abuja,” he said.