RESIDENTS of certain parts of Lagos and Ogun states have lamented losing property worth millions of naira to the incessant rainfall that led to flooding and the attendant destruction of properties. Some of the residents, who spoke with our correspondent, said the losses recorded due to the flood ran into millions of naira. They called on the government to find an urgent solution to the issue of incessant flooding which has wreaked similar destruction in the past. Some of the areas badly affected by the flood included Marina, Lekki, Agege, Victoria Island, Oshodi, Amuwo Odofin, Ilupeju, Ogudu, Maryland, Gbagada, Magboro, Mowe and Ibafo. Rukayat Obalola, a resident of Gbagada, while speaking with our correspondent said she had traveled out of town for the Ileya festival, only to be informed by her neighbours that the flood had damaged many of her properties. “I travelled to Epe for Ileya. I was not around. My neighbours told me the rain entered my house and damaged some of my properties. This is not the first time this is happening.” A resident of Ago Palace way around the Amuwo Odofin area of Lagos State, Fidelis Ikhelia, said, “My car, alongside all the other cars that were parked in my compound, was almost soaked to the roof. The engine has almost been completely damaged. I moved in here about four months ago. I never knew this place do experience this kind of flooding. It’s terrible.” Gbeminiyi Olaniyi, who resides around the Sawmill area of Magboro, also claimed to have lost his newly acquired Toyota Camry to the flooding. He said, “I don’t know if that car will start again. The engine was completely soaked.” Meanwhile, the Lagos State Emergency Agency, in a statement, said following the downpour on Saturday, an elderly woman suffering from a stroke was trapped in a building in the Ipaja area of the state. The Permanent Secretary, LASEMA, Dr Olufemi Oke-Osanyintolu, said the agency responded to a distress call concerning the incident. He said, “A search and rescue operation by the agency’s response team confirmed the victim to be alive although suffering from a stroke.”