Rivers State Publicity Secretary of the All Progressives Congress, Chris Finebone, shares his thoughts with DENNIS NAKU, about the spate of resignation from the party, its readiness to win the 2023 governorship elections, among other issues What will you say is responsible for the recent resignation of some top members of the All Progressives Congress in Rivers State? Of a the truth, I must say a few members of our party decided to exercise their freedom of association by resigning their membership of the party. To understand the development, one must accept that in Nigeria, especially towards the end of any administration, resignations and general movements of politicians take place across political parties and the reasons are diverse. Some resign and settle into private life, while others leave in search of greener political pastures. It’s a common phenomenon in our politics and it can pass as being part of our culture. It’s not peculiar to the APC in Rivers State. Some have cited highhandedness. Others claimed lack of leadership for leaving. What is your reaction to these? Those who cited highhandedness and leadership deficit are in a better position to explain with proof. My position is that there are as many reasons to resign or defect from any political party as there are stars in the sky. What is unarguable is that very often, they give what appears to be high-sounding politically correct reasons, which are miles away from the actual reasons why they are leaving. Some are deliberately mischievous with the reasons they drop in the media or in public space. They do this to deceive opponents and the public. Is the party worried at all over these resignations? Any political party worth its salt should be worried when its member resign or defect to other parties. Politics is a game of numbers and every political party values and cherishes every member and their vote. So, we are worried. We are worried that we lose people when they resign and leave just as we, as human beings, are worried when we lose our loved ones. However, the bottom line is that we dust up ourselves and move on because life must go on. With time, political parties readjust, consolidate and carry on. It has become a familiar turn of events for politicians. The truth is that as people leave, many others have reasons to come to the political party. Our politics is like marriage; while some are moving out, others are moving in. What will you say of the resignation of former acting Managing Director of the Niger Delta Development Commission, Mrs Ibim Semenitari, Tonye Princewill and Dr. Dawari George as well as Golden Chioma and Chidi Wihioka both in Amaechi and Senator Magnus Abe camps? It is true that Mrs Ibim Semenitari, Prince Tonye Princewill, and Dr. Dawari George recently resigned from the APC. They were notable personalities who added value to Rivers APC over the years. We respect their decision to resign and wish them the best in their future endeavours. For Golden Chioma and Chidi Wihioka, it was a big relief for our political party. These were individuals who alongside Senator Abe did everything to destroy the APC in Rivers State. The high point of their trouble was ensuring that Rivers APC was excluded from the ballot in 2019. Even thereafter, they continued their evil machinations in form of frivolous litigations and dispensing violence on the political party, such as in 2018 when they used hoodlums to destroy our former secretariat on Forces Avenue, Old GRA. Their leaving for the Social Democratic Party is good riddance. May they take their nuisance value to their new party. Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike, will be leaving office in less than a year. How would you assess his administration? Apart from the overhead bridges he constructed in Port Harcourt, Wike’s administration is a monumental failure. We understand why, he doesn’t understand what development is. To him, development is building overhead bridges. No human capital development of any kind apart from touting that has taken over the place. His government will be remembered for being a total disaster. The only achievement of Wike in the area of education was sending his son to the University of Exeter, UK, attending his graduation and gleefully sending the photos to us through the social media. What is the leadership of the party in the state doing to stop further resignations? We have a Special Contact Committee headed by an eminent stalwart and elder of the political party, Dr Sam Jaja, and consisting of other equally prominent leaders and elders. Reports reaching us indicate that this committee is achieving a lot, as they have successfully consulted with aspirants in the last governorship and other primaries to explore ways and means of bringing on board all tendencies to wholeheartedly buy into the collective objective of our party; which is to win election into all positions come 2023. The committee is proceeding apace with its assignment. Some governorship aspirants are not happy with the choice of Tonye Cole as the candidate of the state APC for the 2023 elections, because they say he has no structure? It would not be unusual if some aspirants are unhappy with the emergence of Pastor Tonye Cole as the party’s governorship candidate. That is normal whenever a political contest is involved. In fact, in any contest at all, those who lose, naturally feel unhappy. It is human and their feeling should be understood. But what is important is what and how the winner and the party engage those who did not win. Like I said earlier, a whole lot is being done to manage the outcome of the last primaries so that all tendencies and shades are accommodated in the party. With the recent resignations, do you think the APC can match the Peoples Democratic Party in the 2023 general elections in the state? For the umpteenth time, I make bold to say that very soon, our party will review and consolidate all aspects, and position itself to win the 2023 elections in Rivers State. We are gradually dotting the ‘I’s and crossing the ‘T’s to ensure we win the State Assembly, House of Representatives, Senate, and governorship elections in Rivers State come 2023. You can take this to the bank. We hear more heavyweights are preparing to leave. Do you see it coming? Those are speculations and rumours. I can assure you about two things. Firstly, no heavyweight is leaving Rivers APC. Secondly, we are the ones expecting heavyweights to join us from the PDP. It’s only a matter of time before the influx of PDP bigwigs into the APC will begin to happen in torrents. You will begin to see that happen very soon. This will be different from some of Governor Wike’s henchmen who have promised to work for our party irrespective of whether you see them in the open or not. Why is the former Minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi, who is the leader of the party in the state quiet about these resignations? I do not believe that our leader, Rt. Hon. Chibuike Rotimi Amaechi, has any reason to fret over the so-called resignations. He knows that it is a mere self-cleansing mechanism of the party that is at work and nothing more. If anything, the party will come out better. Therefore, there’s no need for him to preoccupy himself with that. Our party will always overcome and get stronger. What is your view on the Muslim-Muslim ticket chosen by your party? Every good party must identify its winning trump card and play it. As a Christian, I’m upset by it. But as a politician in the APC, I have to stick with it. The PDP identified that the only chance for them to win will be to field a northern presidential candidate who’ll be Muslim. They threw the rotation policy that is in their constitution under the bus. The APC gave its presidential ticket to a southerner who is a minority Muslim. A northern Christian as vice president would’ve been a minority. It means that both men on our ticket would have been minorities, while the PDP would’ve fielded a majority Muslim candidate and a majority Christian VP candidate. Every party identifies its strength, potent weapon, and winning strategy. Why is it that the opposition and people who don’t like the APC are the most vociferous complainants about the APC candidates? They should be rejoicing that the APC has committed the most fatal error that will cause their defeat in 2023 if they are confident. Why aren’t they dancing for the easy victory the APC is giving them? It speaks volumes! They better keep quiet. What will you make of Wike’s romance with the APC because the governors from your party recently visited him? Both Governor Wike and the three APC governors that visited him were only on a frolicking to nowhere. If it was meant to send a message or signal to some people, I decline to comment on that, but for every dancer in the arena, there’s always someone watching. They will all labour in vain. Power belongs to God. Do you think the APC in Rivers State has the war chest to prosecute the 2023 governorship and other elections since it has been out of power in the state for about eight years? If by war chest, you mean money, for us, that is not as important as the people. In Rivers State, the APC war chest is the people. We have the people; we have our members. The number of voters is in our favour. That is exactly what we consider the critical assets to winning the election. We have not heard more of your governorship candidate, Tonye Cole. Is that not a sign that all is not well with the party? Far from it! Tonye Cole is working steadily and assiduously with the leadership of our party in the state to perfect and oil our formidable political machinery for the forthcoming campaigns. He is not one to engage in frivolous noisemaking as has become commonplace these days. Very soon, you’ll hear from him and the party.