A traditional ruler in Osun State, the Ataoja of Osogbo, Oba Jimoh Oyetunji, on Tuesday warned troublemakers in the state to desist ahead of the state governorship election fixed for July 16. He warned that those fomenting trouble would know no peace. The monarch spoke during a visit of the Peoples Democratic Party’s governorship candidate, Senator Ademola Adeleke, to his palace in Osogbo. Prior to Adeleke’s arrival at the Ataoja’s palace, The PUNCH learnt that some members of the party were attacked by suspected hoodlums around Isale-Osun area of Osogbo, Osun state. The visibly angry Ataoja also warned the chairman of Olorunda Local Government Chapter of the National Union of Road Transport Workers, Kazeem Oyewale, also known as Asiri Eniba, against orchestrating violence in the town. Ataoja, who spoke in Yoruba language, in the video clip of the incident obtained by our correspondent, was seen being restrained from speaking further by some of his chiefs. The monarch said, “Anybody who wants to cause violence in Osogbo will not know peace. “Let Asiri Eniba (Kazeem Oyewale) know this fact. Receiving a chieftaincy title from the Ataoja doesn’t mean you will now be acting with impunity. “I will take action to prevent violence in Osogbo. Oyetola and the APC came to the palace, the PDP did not disturb nor waylaid them. Be careful, it is the PDP that installed me as a monarch. Leave me, let me talk.” When contacted for more clarification on the attack referred to by the monarch, the Director, Osun PDP Media and Strategy, Oladele Oluwabamiji, said some members of the party, heading to the Ataoja’s palace to receive Adeleke, were attacked around the Isale-Osun area of Osogbo. “The APC thugs attacked our supporters on their way to the palace of Ataoja of Osogbo around Isale-Osun area. We don’t know how many people got injured yet,” he said. However, while reacting to Oluwabamiji’s claim, the Special Adviser to Osun State Governor on Political Affairs, Sunday Akere, blamed the attack on factions in the group of hoodlums working for the PDP. He then called on security agents to probe the said attack and stop the PDP from unleashing more attacks on the masses before the July 16 governorship poll. Akere said, “Their governorship candidate openly declared the ‘fire for fire’ mantra in a viral video and this is an attestation that they are ready to unleash violence on the masses. “We are also aware that the PDP created factions among the hoodlums working for them when they gave particular group money at the detriment of the other group that has been with them for a long time. No one does that and expects peace.”