The Kaduna State deputy governorship candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party, John Ayuba, has urged the residents of the state to register for their Permanent Voters’ Cards. Ayuba made the call on Monday during a parley with the Southern Kaduna Journalists Forum in the state. During the parley, he assured the masses that the factors that worked against their chances in 2019 will not be allowed to rear its ugly head in the 2023 general elections. He said that though the PDP fared well in the 2019 general election, there are lapses that the party is working earnestly to correct in the next election cycle. Ayuba commended the people who hitherto do not have PVC for coming out en masse to get registered and urged those who are yet to do so to take advantage of the extension by INEC to obtain theirs, so as to participate in electing those that will enhance democratic values. According to him, the PDP as an opposition party will be more sagacious, tactful and articulate in their campaign strategy to ensure they take power by force from the ruling party that have meted all kinds of inhumane policies. Ayuba, a financial expert, promised to consolidate on the 800,000 votes the party acquired in the 2019 general election from the Southern Kaduna region in order to give an edge over the ruling party. Commenting on youth inclusion, he noted that administration will give the youth a sense of belonging if they emerge victorious at the polls. Ayuba explained that the PDP has since learnt from its past mistakes where youths and women were not given the needed percentage to participate in governance, hence, a change will be effected going forward. He thanked his principal for nominating him as running mate and pledged to continue to bring his wealth of experience to bear, so as to move the party forward and bring relief to his people of the state. “I want our people to be strategic in thinking and choosing candidates by checking if the candidate they support has the capacity to win elections at the polls,” Ayuba said. He decried how the All Progressives Congress-led administration in the state and Federal Government failed woefully in providing security for the people which made the masses helpless. While responding to a question as to how prepared his party was to convince the people to vote for his party, Dr. John Ayuba, pointed out that the masses are already tired and are looking up for the PDP to clinch power and restore their lost hope.