The Defence Headquarters on Thursday said six top terrorists commanders surrendered to troops in the North East on July 13, 2022. The Director, Defence Media Operations, Major General Benard Onyeuko, disclosed this while briefing journalists on the activities of troops between June 30 and July 14, in Abuja. He said, “On July 13, 2022, six top terrorists commanders surrendered to own troops in Gwoza. It is pertinent to note that since the surrendering of terrorists to own troops, the high calibre of commanders surrendered at this time is unprecedented, among them a Wali (Governor) and Kaid (a three-star commander). “Those who surrendered are Mala Hassan (Wali), Ali Madagali (Munzur), Musa Bashir (Chief Anur), Buba Dahiru (Munzur), Jafar Hamma (Kaid) and Abbali Nakib Polisawa. “Also, about 3,858 Boko Haram terrorists and their families surrendered between July 1 and 14, 2022, comprising 505 male, 1,042 female and 2,311 children. “All surrendered Boko Haram/Islamic State of West Africa Province terrorists and their families were profiled and documented.” Onyeuko also said troops killed over 63 terrorists in separate operations during the period under review. He added, “On July 11, 2022, the air component of Operation Hadin Kai conducted air interdiction operations at Tumbum Jaki and Tumbum Murhu near Lake Chad in Borno State on the receipt of intelligent reports on the activities of the insurgents in the general area. “The successful airstrike neutralised several Boko Haram terrorists and destroyed their hideout. Accordingly, information received from locals indicates that over 21 terrorists were neutralised in the airstrike. “Consequently, between July 1 -14, 2022, troops neutralised 42 terrorists, arrested 10 suspected terrorists.” Onyeuko added troops on joint border patrol in the South West zone recovered 61 25 litres jerry cans of Premium Motor Spirit  and intercepted two vehicles loaded with 163 50kg bags of foreign rice along Ifo-Abeokuta in Ifo Local Government Area and Ijimu-Tata in Imeko Afon Local Government Area of Ogun State. He said all recovered items were handed over to the Nigerian Custom Service, Abeokuta. 