A group of Nigerians in Diaspora, under the aegis of Democracy Vanguard of Nigeria in Diaspora, vowed to source funds to help the Presidential Candidate of Peoples Democratic Party, Atiku Abubakar, actualise his dream of winning the 2023 general elections. Justifying its action, the group stated that an Atiku’s presidency would herald a democratic dispensation that will raise the hope that young progressive minds like theirs would be privileged to also run for political offices in future elections. Atiku, who watched as the PDP governorship candidate, Ademola Adeleke, coasted home to victory in Saturday’s election in Osun, has described the win as a ‘shining light’ to the people of the state. The Independent National Electoral Commission had declared Adeleke winner of the 2022 Governorship Election with 403,371 votes to defeat the candidate of All Progressives Congress and incumbent governor, Adegboyega Oyetola, who polled 375,027 votes. In a statement issued on Monday by DVND President, Timothy Sule, the group acknowledged that Atiku has historically remained one of the few political leaders whose actions and utterances have reflected an understanding of Nigeria’s deep rooted challenges. The statement partly read, “It is to this end that we have decided to mobilise our relatives back home to get their PVCs and go out in their numbers to exercise their franchise in order to guarantee a safer, more united and prosperous country. “We also, hereby, declare to raise requisite funds to support this project as we all look forward to one day returning to a safer, more united and prosperous country. “It is an exciting certainty that we who live in other countries share Atiku’s vision of an all-inclusive plan for us. We know that with leadership such as he will offer, the institutions responsible for the same will to ensure our voting rights as early as 2027. We know that where there is a will, a way becomes inevitable. “For the avoidance of doubt, our numbers are legion and we are curating the same to ensure everyone of us matches their desires with actions to the realization of a Nigeria of our dreams.” Sule, who described the former vice president as a unifier and bridge-builder, expressed excitement over his emergence and Dr Ifeanyi Okowa as both presidential candidate and running mate of the PDP respectively. This is even as he remained upbeat that their ticket has upped the prospects of getting Nigerians in the Diaspora to start voting in National elections as early as 2027. Sule said, “We extend our warm felicitations to all the presidential candidates and their running mates on their emergence to fly the flag of their various political parties in the 2023 presidential election. “We affirm that Atiku and the choice of Okowa as the Vice Presidential candidate goes to demonstrate the ability of the duo to immediately set to work in unifying the various cracks in the Nigerian polity, the reframing of the security architecture to stem the nightmarish bloodletting has been witnessed in all the zones of the country, rejig the political structure and devolve more power and resources to the states and local governments; lead a charge in the revolutionary development of education in Nigeria, and propel the country into an economic upward trajectory as was the case between 1999 and 2007. “We are particularly excited about the Atiku-Okowa ticket as we observed that the two gentlemen have consistently shown commitment to a unified and prosperous Nigeria where citizens, regardless of their creed, tribe or tongue, are not discriminated against,”