Chinnaya Sylvain Judex is the chief executive officer of Dangote Sugar Refinery, Numan, Adamawa State. He tells ODINAKA ANUDU how the company plans to contribute to Nigeria’s quest for self-sufficiency in sugar production Dangote Sugar is investing billions of naira in Numan in line with the National Sugar Master Plan. What is the level of progress recorded since the company fully acquired this site from Savannah Sugar in 2020? Definitely, there has been a lot of progress in terms of production and social opportunities. A lot of progress has been made in the prosperity of our communities around. We are focused on the National Sugar Master Plan. The origin has been a 10-year plan, but we have been a little bit delayed by what is happening on the globe. The COVID-19 pandemic has not been helping us. I am sure you have gone round the farm and seen that the extension is going on. We are talking about an increase in 3,000 hectares per year. We have already got a factory with 3,800-ton skin per day. Additional 6,000 tons are coming. The ultimate purpose is to have 9, 800-ton skin per day. The factory was not even up to 2,000 per day before we took over. This will definitely help us to reach the Nigerian Sugar Master Plan. It is not only Numan, we have Nasarawa and other players on ground who participate in this master plan. We are confident that we are investing whatever is needed to reach this target. We are the only player in the North-East of Nigeria. We have other areas we want to make business and bring the sugar plant. Taraba, Adamawa and Nasarawa are places we are playing. One of the issues we are having is knowledge transfer because there is a lot of knowledge that is behind sugar technology. We are working very hard to train our people to make sure we reach a high level of crushing because there is a lot of technology behind it. So far, how much has been invested in this site? Also, is there any possibility of expanding beyond 9,800 tons? Our assets in terms of land are 32,000 hectares. This year, we are reaching 8,650 hectares and each year, we have projected to increase by 3,000. Within three to four years, we will be above 11,000 hectares. One of our prerogatives is the yield of the cane. We have been facing some issues with the yield due to variety and depleted land. Here, we have been planting cane in the last 40 years. There is land depletion, but we are correcting those issues through organic matter and fallowing just to make sure the capacity of the land can bring us more than 120 tons per hectare. We are managing 70-to-80-ton skin per hectare. We have projected 82 tons for the next financial year. The profitability will happen when you reach 120 tons per hectare. What it means is that you increase your yield from 80 to 120 per hectare. This is the game. On investments, I will give you in terms of percentages. We are more than 400 per cent investment from what we had here before. Every year, the company invests a lot in order to reach the expected target. What timelines are you looking at regarding the completion of some of these investments? In October this year, we have planned to commission one boiler and one turbine. By November next year, we will be able to do our 6,000 tons of cane per day. When we have gone through this COVID-19, there is a lot of equipment that needs to come. We will be able to be in a good position by October this year because boiler and turbine will be in operation. There is a target set by the National Sugar Master Plan. In terms of percentages, how much have you been able to reach that? In terms of investments, we have already invested. To reach there is to put what we have invested into operations. When you look at the master plan itself, it is not Numan only. The master plan involves other players and I am sure we will be able to reach the target of the master plan. Definitely, it will not be in the time frame of 10 years because we have been delayed because of this wave of COVID-19, but I am sure we are going to cover it. How much of shared prosperity is there between the company and the community? What I can tell you is that we have been increasing our budget for the Corporate Social Responsibility. We are very mindful that our prosperity goes through the prosperity of our communities. We are not a free electron that we can grow by itself. It is through our people, through our workers that we are prospering. We are growing together with our communities. It is not a finite game. It means that tomorrow, my worker, his children and grand children will benefit from what Dangote has put down here. It is a game that has got its momentum because it goes from one generation to, say, the next five generations. Can you take us through how your outgrower scheme feeds into this shared prosperity? We need to look at the end picture of the game, which is to put sugar in the market, to be self-sufficient in the Nigerian sugar market. The parameters that we need are the space, which is the land, and the yield of the cane. We have started 32,000 hectares. Right now, we have a community in Adamawa and we are working with them on 450 hectares of cane. We have developed it and we are continuing. We are raising the community outgrowers to become our community. We need to be in the same direction when we are talking about shared prosperity. It will not come tomorrow morning, but there is plenty of opportunities there.   Each and every time we develop, we bring the outgrowers with us. We want to reach 40 per cent of our land size to give this opportunity for others. We are not seeing it from the perspective of our own land; we are encouraging others to have their land and to cultivate. We are very confident because there is a lot of opportunity in this area. We have just inaugurated the drip irrigation, which is a new technology. It is the first time of doing it here. We have done it on our outgrowers’ land just to encourage. The difference between our actual practice and the one you have seen there is the yield. The drip irrigation is meant to have 150 tons per hectare. Senegal does it a lot. We are working with two companies to excel in this project. If you look at the statistics, you may not have the right conclusion, but if you look at the yield of outgrowers coming from 50 or 70 to 150, you will see that this is where we are aiming. Nigeria’s sugar demand is over 1.5 million tons per annum, but we are far behind. How much sugar do you get from your site? We have 23,000, but this is because we have gone through stood-over cane. What that means is that in 2021, we were not able to crush and operate properly, but this is behind us now. We have learnt our lessons. For the next crop season, we are talking about 650,000 tons of cane, which roughly should come to 55,000 to 65,000 tons of sugar only on our farm. But every year, we are adding 3,000 hectares and by God’s grace, if we succeed in our technology, we will triple our prosperity. We are working directly with the National Sugar Institute and the National Sugar Development Council. We visited Ilorin last time where we did the tissue culture. One of the aspects we are looking at is the variety of cane. Cane is a plant that will not give the same yield in different environments. We are working in direct relationship with NSO and NSDC in order to have the best-in-class varieties to get the best amount of sugar in the cane. What criterion or model do you use in your land acquisition? We are still at one-thirds of where we need to go. I told you about our 32,000 hectares and we have enough room for improvement. Our outgrowers are our ambassadors. In terms of our understanding here, we are working with our outgrowers and the communities. The return on cane is huger than any other cash crop you want to compare. I have had the chance in working in some countries. In all of these countries, sugar cane outgrowers are very rich people. The day you would see people start buying cars and sending their children to school and getting good healthcare because of sugarcane, then you will see the importance of what we are saying. So, the approach is very simple, it is a win-win situation. We are in business and we have put a strategy in place in a way that whatever our yield is, we want our outgrowers to be better than they are now. An example is the drip irrigation. So, we don’t want anybody to lose. In the past, there was this episode of what the company or community was going to gain, but there is shared prosperity at the moment.