A chieftain of the Peoples Democratic Party in Akwa Ibom State and pioneer National Publicity Secretary of the party, Senator Anietie Okon, has called on the party’s presidential candidate in the 2023 elections, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, and the PDP family to do everything possible, and quickly, to placate the Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike, and his camp before the 2023 elections draw near. Supporters of Wike are still angry over the outcome of the presidential primary won by Atiku, and have given conditions that are difficult for Atiku and the PDP to embrace. The situation was said to have worsen when Atiku picked the Delta State Governor, Ifeanyi Okowa, as his running mate against Wike, who was recommended by the Ad hoc committee set up for that purpose. Capitalising on the perceived crisis in the party, some APC governors, comprising Kayode Fayemi of Ekiti State, Rotimi Akeredolu, Ondo and Babajide Sanwo-Olu of Lagos State, Saturday, paid a visit to Wike in Portharcourt, the Rivers State capital. However, speaking against the backdrop of the developments in the party with our correspondent in Uyo on Saturday, Senator Okon warned that it would amount to taking a killer decision for Atiku and the party to ignore or think of ignoring Wike and his camp, adding that such action shouldn’t be now that an Ad hoc committee voted for Wike as running mate to Atiku. According to senator Okon, who is also the spokesman of the Akwa Ibom Elders’ Forum, Wike is one of the formidable forces in the party who has stood by it at all times, and cannot be ignored. He described Wike as a foremost participant of the PDP who had contributed time and resources to build and sustain the party. “Wike has been a strong participant of the party. He has done so much for the PDP and has remained a faithful party man. So, thinking of ignoring him is like taking a killer decision, not after a committee set up by the party voted strongly for him. This is very important, every other consideration is immaterial. “Therefore, I will advise Atiku, the PDP presidential candidate, whom I have congratulated to stand by him to do everything possible to handle the situation amicably for the 2023 presidential election,” he said.