AN unfolding drama over accreditation of a tertiary education institution in Abia State demonstrates the cavalier governance prevalent among Nigeria’s federal and state governments. A report in The PUNCH described how the Abia State Polytechnic lost its accreditation status due to the non-payment of staff salaries and allowances for over 30 months. Such carelessness and callous treatment of staff and students need to be consigned to history before they bring the education system completely to its knees. A narrative of events leading to the loss of accreditation is an indictment of the state administration. The National Board for Technical Education lamented that despite the efforts of the board to persuade the governing council of the school and the state government to work towards paying off the debt, both failed to act decisively. It noted that settling such obligations is one of the key components of the NBTE’s normative instruments for quality assurance in the polytechnics, and technical and vocational institutions under its purview. The board recalled that it took extra steps by writing directly to Governor Okezie Ikpeazu, but all to no avail. In a state where the people overwhelmingly cherish the acquisition of formal education for self and societal improvement, this is unfair. But Abia Poly is not the first higher institution of learning in the state to lose its accreditation. In May 2022, the National Universities Commission withdrew the accreditation of the Abia State University College of Medicine.The state chairman of the Nigerian Medical Association, Chimezie Okwuonu, blamed the loss squarely on the government. “Currently, as at the end of April 2022, the staff members in Abia State University Teaching Hospital are owed 25 months’ salary arrears,” he said. “The resident doctors have been on cumulative 18 months strike; other health workers are also on strike, while a few of the doctors, mainly the consultants, the medical officers, and the locum staff, though not officially on strike, are largely not working as the work environment is not in order.” Okwuonu said efforts to ensure quick solutions met a brick wall.“The NMA at both state and national levels, over the last 18 months, have met with the state governor for a record five times. If only the government and its agencies had listened and collaborated with the NMA and other unions, this loss of accreditation would have been avoided.” However, the state strongly refuted these narratives. It blamed the management of Abia Poly. Eze Chikamnayo, the Commissioner for Information and Strategy, said the Ikpeazu administration had since 2015 remitted N7.17 billion to the school, releasing N92 million monthly for 78 months. He insisted that the school’s woes were “self-inflicted” and the result of mismanagement. On the closed medical school, the state government blamed this on the closure of the ABSUTH but admitted the hospital “was closed as a result of issues around arrears of salaries of workers.” The excuses do not absolve the government. It owns the polytechnic; it is its responsibility to ensure sound management, monitor and ensure judicious use of funds. It failed in its oversight. If the polytechnic management was incompetent, it should have acted. Moreover, it has no excuse owing arrears of salaries long enough to cause the closure of the hospital. Sadly, Abia is not alone in the neglect of education. Apart from the shutdown of federal and many state universities for five months as the Federal Government fails to resolve the strike called by the Academic Staff Union of Universities, many states owe lecturers, medical personnel, other workers, and pensioners. Underfunded, ill-equipped, and neglected, most state higher education institutions, hospitals and other public institutions are shambolic. Often, it is not for lack of resources, but a matter of priority. Governors simply have other priorities, mostly politics, only paying lip service to education. The neglect of education from the primary to the tertiary levels proves Nigeria’s leadership deficit. In other parts of the world, the ASUU strike, now moving into its sixth month, would have attracted the undivided attention of all the 36 governors and the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.). Instead, they are preoccupied with politics and the 2023 elections. Worse, they demonstrate open contempt for ordinary Nigerians and their plight. Thus, while public universities remain shuttered and thousands of students stay home,Buhari, several governors and ministers have been sharing photographs celebrating the graduation of their own children in foreign universities. How callous! Education is the foundation of the world’s successful economies.It helps propel change in economies transiting from underdevelopment to societies with favourable human development indices. Nigeria falls behind in HDI due in part to the mess its leaders have made of the education sector from foundational, basic education level to the tertiary level. Recently, teachers in Abia declared an indefinite strike allegedly following 14 months of unpaid salaries. And like most states, the state government failed to access the N715.07 million grant provided by the Universal Basic Education Commission in 2020. In 2021, UBEC revealed that 26 states, including Abia, and the FCT,did not access N33.6 billion to develop basic education because they did not provide the 50 percent matching fund component. In all, N130 billion of the UBEC fund hadnot been accessed as of August 2021, according to the Minister of Education, Adamu Adamu. Experts say that the right environment must exist for learning to take place. But Nigerian governments do not promote this necessity; a reason UNESCO classified Nigeria among countries where “teaching takes place, but without learning.” The national literacy rate of 62.02 percent is poor compared to its peers. In contrast, South Africa has 87.05 percent literacy rate, Egypt 71.2 percent, and Ghana 79.04 percent. The agony of the students, their parents, and unpaid lecturers and health workers in several states can only be imagined.The Abia State House of Assembly should intervene using its constitutional powers. It should appropriate funds to fix the state’s higher institutions and medical facilities and pay lecturers and health personnel. All efforts should be made to upgrade the dis-accredited institutions and restore their accreditation. Every other state legislature should adopt similar measures. Governors should accord education the highest priority. Urgently, the NBTE, NUC and other well-meaning stakeholders in the education sector should join hands to ensure that the Abia education sector crisis is resolved without delay.