The supervisor of a farm belonging to the late former Governor Adebayo Alao-Akala of Oyo State, Christopher Bakare, has been abducted by some gun-wielding kidnappers. Bakare was reportedly abducted  around 7pm on Saturday by hoodlums  suspected to be Fulani herdsmen. The farm supervisor, who is an indigene of Gbongan in Ayedaade Local Government Area of Osun State, was said to have been kidnapped on the farm named TDB farms located at Jabata community in Surulere Local Government Area of Oyo State. A source close to the farm told journalists on Tuesday that the kidnappers had since contacted the family and demanded that N100m ransom be paid to secure the release of their captive. The source said the incident had been reported to the police and the police told them that they were working to ensure his release. He said, “The matter was reported to the police and we have been trying to negotiate with them even though the police had been informed. “We informed the  Police Area Command in Ogbomoso about the incident and we hope he will be freed soon.” The Police Public Relations Officer in Oyo State, Adewale Osifeso, confirmed  the incident when contacted by our correspondent. The PPRO said, “The incident is under investigation and close monitoring. Updates would be provided accordingly.” Recall that some youths in Ogbomoso on the platform ofOgbomoso Community  Youth Forum led by the President,  Rev’d Peter Olaleye and Secretary,  Idowu Adeniji, recently in a communique   lamented the worsening insecurity in the town and called on Governor Seyi Makinde to ensure that security in the area was beefed up. The communique read, “Farmers and people generally cannot venture out into their farms again due to fear of falling victims to these ruthless bandits. “Herdsmen’s brutalities have now become the order of the day in areas like Federal Housing Estate, Aroje, Ogbegun, Igbo’le, LAUTECH extension, Iya-Oje, Ikoyi and Oriire Local Government Area in general. “Our people can’t take laws into their hands as law-abiding citizens but the limitation imposed on government’s security agents is worrisome. “The Amotekun corps, an initiative of South West states to improve the security architecture is also impeded by its operatives’ inability to bear arms. Where therefore do we go from here? “The marauders  seem to have succeeded in keeping people away from their farms; they are now turning to keeping us from worship centres.”