A former Minister of Power, Wole Oyelese, has said the victory  of the Osun State governor-elect, Senator Ademola Adeleke, meant that governors and other elective office occupants must work hard for the people, who elected them before thinking of re-election. He said this while speaking with journalists in Ibadan on Wednesday. Oyelese, who is a PDP chieftain in Oyo State, congratulated Adeleke and the people of Osun State on the victory, saying the resurgence which the party had started in the South-West would continue all over Nigeria. Oyelese said, “I  want to congratulate Senator Ademola  Adeleke on his victory in the last Saturday election in Osun State. “His victory is a great lesson to everybody and it means that the era of ballot, snatching and  stuffing as well as manipulation of election figure is over and this is a good news for us all. “This victory means that any political office holder,  who wants re-election must perform if not, such person  be thrown out by the electorate. If you want the people to vote for you, the perform, the voters are taking note and they will repay at polls.” He urged the people of Osun State to also vote of the presidential candidate of the PDP, Atiku Abubakar, in 2023 election. The former minister appealed to the people of Osun State to exercise patience with Adeleke who he said would perform creditably well. He said, “Osun people are desirous of change and this is expected because the APC has been ruling the state for about 12 years now. The people will want to see a great change quickly. “But my appeal is that the people of Osun State should be patient with Adeleke. He is not the governor yet, Governor  Adegboyega Oyetola is still the one in charge and Adeleke will be inaugurated in November and I know he will fulfill a the promises he made during g campaigns.” Commenting on the new deputy governor in Oyo State, Oyelese described Bayo Lawal, who replaced the sacked Rauf Olaniyan, as a very brilliant politician. He said Lawal would compliment Governor Seyi Makinde and the duo would perform better. He said described the removal of Olaniyan as a good riddance to bad rubbish, saying the former deputy governor ought to have resigned immediately he defected to the All Progressives Congress. He said, “There is nothing wrong with the way he was removed. He ought o have resigned since he defected to APC. You can’t have your cake  and eat it. It is good riddance to bad rubbish.”