The crisis in the Delta State chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party deepened on Tuesday when a chieftain of the Party, Fred Oghenesivbe, urged the leadership of the party to subject the National Youth Service Corps’ certificate purportedly submited by David Edevbie to forensic investigation. The Federal High Court had last week disqualified the party’s governorship candidate for the 2023 election, Sheriff Oborevwori. Justice Taiwo Taiwo agreed with the plaintiff that Oborevwori ought not to be the candidate of the PDP for allegedly supplying false and forged documents to the Independent National Electoral Commission and subsequently directed INEC and the PDP to recognise the plaintiff, David Edevbie, as the candidate. However, Oghenesivbe, who made the call on Tuesday in Asaba, said it had been alleged that Edevbie’s NYSC certificate was fake. He said, “I call on the leadership of our great party, the PDP, to, as a matter of urgency and necessity, subject David Edevbie’s NYSC discharge certificate to forensic investigation due to serious allegations suggestive of fake certificate or not having NYSC certificate at all. “This call has become necessary because of the foreseeable cabalism and conspiracy theory crafted to force Edevbie on the party through the back door, whereas all is not well with him. “Those concerned should verify Edevbie’s NYSC certificate at the headquarters of the NYSC to confirm whether or not the discharge certificate purportedly issued to him is fake or genuine. “It is the law that those who come to equity must come with clean hands. “David Edevbie, who is obviously desperate for power, ought to know that our amiable party’s candidate, Oborevwori, submitted his academic credentials to INEC and not to Edevbie Campaign Organisation, which is why INEC must first publish the names of candidate who won the governorship primary in Delta PDP, before litigations by those with locus standi. “Our candidate has appealed against the Federal High Court Judgment over perceived gross miscarriage of justice and we are pretty sure that the Courts above will do justice to the Appeal.”