A professor of political economy and former presidential aspirant, Prof. Patrick Utomi, has insisted that the governments of the All Progressives Congress and the Peoples Democratic Party has failed Nigerians, stressing that the ‘Third Force” is set to oust the two major parties come 2023. Utomi, who is also the Convener of ‘The Big Tent of the Third Force’, stated this in a statement made available to Saturday PUNCH on Friday. According to him, the increase in voter registration by youths and women is an indication that the Nigerian populace is ready to take back the country. He said, “The youths of Nigeria stirred up by the #EndSARS experience, and the middle class coming out of the daze of being complicit by omission, are increasingly determined to rise to the occasion. They are also poised to present the counterfactual of decades of false narratives by some professional politicians of abuse and take their country back. In 2023 providence truly places before us life in the crush for a new order and death in continuing in the old ways of trusting in big men. “We in the third force, as part of the orientation of doing,  over talking, have scheduled a Retreat for all governorship candidates of the Labour Party on how to focus on how the environment can not only stop the depletion of the assets of our communities but be a source of massive job creation and a transforming Green economy initiative. The second part will focus on reprogramming Local Government Areas from political organisations to Economic agencies converting local governments into accelerators of local factor endowments  in erecting value chains that drive a return to production from conspicuous consumption and obsession with sharing revenues. “The Tsunami of the movement unleashed by Nigerians desiring an end to government that performs so poorly on most fronts because it lacks capacity and commitment has provided the opportunity for National renewal that we are willing to deploy strategy unseen in Nigerian politics to rescue the polity and save the nation. “The broad coalition of women, youth, professionals and the intellectuals which has adopted the leadership of the Labour Party and Peter Obi is serving notice that in addition to its agents which will number up to 15 in each polling booth in the country, it will use technology to guard the votes of Nigerians in 2023,” he added. 