A lawyer, Abdulwaheed Olowonjaye, who also is the Political Awareness Group Chairman, an association of Muslim professionals and technocrats in Nigeria with key interest in good governance, in this interview with TOSIN OYEDIRAN delves into the issue of Muslim-Muslim presidential ticket from the purview of history, democracy, religion, tribalism among several others Would you consider trading the two political currencies – tribalism and religion – for competence in the vice-president selection processes in contemporary times? As a professional, I will never trade any tendency, parameter, or bias over competence. Wherever the competent hand belongs, so be it. What matters most to us is eligibility first, then qualification, and, of course, competence. There is no certification when it comes to practical politics. Otherwise, I would have mentioned certification. The constitution has addressed eligibility and qualification, but competence is what is left for the political party, the technocrats in society, and even the electorate to look into. So, I, on behalf of PAG, would give preference to competence over any other thing. I believe that the Federal Character exists for a reason. Putting it into consideration, would you still go by your earlier preference? I would still go by my postulation that competence comes before anything else. Why and when is the federal character there? The federal character protects all. You know, democracy is a game of the majority, but of course, the minority would also have their say, but how would they? One of the mechanisms towards guaranteeing the minorities’ say is the Federal Character, in it is a fundamental human right that we call the Charter of Rights, used in the entire world, even if you are a singular person or in a nation governed by the military. Then, we all subscribe to the fact that the Charter of Rights shall subsist whether under military, democracy or whatever. That is what brings about orderliness in the world we live in and that is what separates us from the animal kingdom. So also, Federal Character, if it is not abused, if we are looking for competence in each of the six geopolitical zones in Nigeria, there is hardly any position you want someone to occupy that you will not find numerous there. If this is the case, then we now have to devise some means of zoning or taking turns; that is, if a zone has the presidency, his running mate must come from elsewhere, the Senate president from another, and so on. The federal character is not an abuse of competency but rather a protection of the rights of the minorities. Now, what do you think of the confirmed All Progressives Congress’s Muslim-Muslim ticket (Tinubu-Shettima)? My understanding is that the APC did not explicitly state that its ticket would be Muslim-Muslim. The primary was keenly contested by all. Indeed, it was a product of circumstance, and each issue should be treated based on the surrounding circumstances that brought about it. This is quite similar to the circumstances we used to have in the past, as like during the Awolowo, Gowon and the likes’ era when we used to have Christian-Christian partnership; so also do we still have it in different cases and places in contemporary times in our country. I see it as what circumstances gave us. As large as the APC is well-spread across the six zones, would you say there is no northern Christian APC card-carrying member worthy of getting the VP slot, or is it a strategic move by the ruling party? They are in their hundreds and even thousands. I am aware that there are bonafide Christians carrying APC membership tickets from the North. However, they are an infinitesimal minority. So, whatever decisions that are to be made, for instance, if it were to be when entering the election year, minorities don’t win in democracy; it is the majority that wins. Democracy favours the majority. Should the credibility of this assertion be discarded? There are some names and groups to reckon with in the Nigerian political sphere that insist that the All Progressives Congress has dug its grave with the Muslim-Muslim ticket move. What is your take on this, sir? You know, in a democracy, it is all about the participants. That is the reason the constitution frowns upon disenfranchising any individual. Everybody is eligible to partake, but if the wise choose not to vote, then they can be ruled by the fools. Hence, when we say competence, the majority is a plausible factor worth considering alongside if not before competency. The most competent among those who are available defines the competence in democracy and when it comes to voting. So, whatever is available within the political party will dictate what that party will reckon with, considering the competency and considering the numbers, because democracy is a game of numbers. So the APC has not dug its own grave in any way, sir? The first issue is to win before any other thing, because if you do not win, there is no idea you have, no matter how beautiful it is, you cannot bring it into actuality. So, winning comes first. The truth is that Bola Tinubu, the APC standard bearer is from the South-West and he is a Muslim. Therefore, the deputy cannot come from the same zone as the standard bearer. It has to come from the North; Tinubu is from the South. …In the North, where there are Christians too? There are Christians in the North, but barring any other data that may be made available tomorrow, the percentage, as statistics shows today, is not more than 10%. How well will it be for Bola Tinubu to choose from 10% Christians to convince the 90% Muslims? That cannot work and it is the truth. He has to pick from the 90%, appeal to the 10% that I do not relegate you or disregard your existence. Let’s just do this project together. When we get to power, we shall give you your rights. What bothers a political party is – how do I win? At times, it may not only be the number but an opportunity that comes your way. The saying goes, “Opportunity comes but once.” What I am trying to say is that, in the case of Bola Tinubu, we are having a very perfect Muslim-Christian union already. The wife is a pastor, and Tinubu himself is an Alhaji, and their union has been in existence for over 30 years now, and it is a very perfect one. So, our Christian brothers and sisters should entertain no fear. Tinubu said he picked Senator Kashim Shettima based on competence, but Christians are saying competence is not restricted to Islam.  What is your view? Competence is a relative word. It is like the students determining what question an examiner should ask them, that is not possible. If Tinubu believes Shettima is the needed help, then so be it. We believe numerous Muslims and Christians are competent. However, not all that are competent are qualified. The genesis of the security challenges in the country is not far from the region from which Shettima was chosen, and that is going to serve a purpose in convincing the people there that they are still part of the country. Just like what Obasanjo did by ‘picking’ Jonathan to douse the tension in the region. The PDP, for instance, decided their competency based on whom they believed should fulfil what their competency test is, maybe not religion now, maybe not zone, the party knows. Is there any recreation of history worthy of note going on? Does it not seem like a déjà vu of the Abiola/Kingibe1993 partnership which was unanimously declared victorious before its annulment? Do you think Asiwaju’s proposed ticket shares any similarity? Asiwaju was one of the disciples of MKO Abiola, and he was one of those that supported him after its annulment with his resources and the like. They shared the same school of thoughts. He believes in what MKO rose up to bring about good governance. Asiwaju took his time, studied it, and he was slow and steady following the trend of events till God gave him the chance to contest. A former Secretary General of the Federation, Babachir Lawal, said the APC presidential candidate, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, bowed to the wish of northern governors by picking a Muslim, what are your thoughts on this? Lawal was one of the committee members set up to look for who the best running mate should be, and among the eleven names submitted, Shettima was one of them. “He (Lawal) cannot go against what he was informed of and involved in the process.” Irrespective of the number, Shettima’s name was on the list, whether the first, middle, or last, the members of the committee have no talking sense or no right to oppose what they have done. What they have to do is to defend it as much as they can. Currently, the president; House of Representatives Speaker; Senate president are all Muslims. Some people believe that the APC is becoming an Islamic party. What do you say to that? The main reason no one can say that is because Osinbajo is a main factor, being a powerful and relevant member of the current administration as a Vice-Principal as well as a senior pastor in the Redeemed Christian Church of God. The election that produced the president of the country differs from that which produced the Senate President and the House of Reps Speaker. Nigerians at large, in all the 36 states and the Federal Capital Territory, voted for the President, while the lawmakers, after Nigerians voted for them conducted a kind of election in the Red Chamber, from which Femi Gbajabiamila emerged as the Speaker in the lower chamber and Ahmed Lawan in the upper chamber. They weren’t the only ones who came from the six regions to contest. So, it is quite different—and the National Assembly is made up of both Muslims and Christians. Nigerians voted for these lawmakers, and by extension, they, in turn, chose their own leaders, which we, as ordinary citizens, do not need to worry about.