The nation’s broadband penetration has witnessed seven million new subscriptions in the last seven months according to the Executive Vice Chairman of the Nigerian Communications Commission, Prof. Umar Danbatta. According to him, the nation is on course to achieving 70 per cent national broadband coverage by 2025. He said this while presenting the keynote address at the 11th eWorld Forum, which featured the launch of a book: ‘Nigeria Drivers of Digital Prosperity: The Trajectories of the Digital Evolution, Sector Analysis and Players Contributions’, authored by Mr Aaron Ukodie. He explained that the steady growth in broadband penetration was positively impacting other sectors of the economy such as healthcare, education, agriculture, finance, transportation, commerce, governance, and other sectors. He said, “Internet subscribers have grown from 90 million in 2015 to 150.36 million as at May 2022. Also, within the period under review, broadband penetration increased from 8 per cent to 43.67 per cent, indicating that over 83.3 million subscribers are on broadband networks of 3G and 4G. Indeed, between November 2021 and May 2022, the networks have added 7 million new users.” At the event, chaired by the former EVC of the NCC and current Chairman of MTN Nigeria, Dr Ernest Ndukwe, Danbatta, who was represented by NCC’s Head, Spectrum Administration, Abraham Oshadami said the commission, through the Universal Service Provision Fund, had recorded huge successes towards ensuring that telecommunications services are accessible to a large number of people (and communities) at affordable prices, in addition to various projects being implemented by the Commission to increase universal access and service as well as to enhance government efforts in poverty reduction. According to him, the NCC through its Strategic Vision Implementation Plan 2021-2025, has taken a number of steps toward implementing all the digital economy-oriented policies that require the attention of the commission, including the Nigerian National Broadband Plan 2020-2025, and the National Digital Economy Policy and Strategy. 2020-2030. 