The Kogi State Governor, Yahaya Bello, has offered an outstanding corps member and a recipient of the State Award, Mary Ekpa, automatic employment in the state as a reward for her meritorious and humanitarian service to the state. The corps member was singled out among the 725 outgoing 2021 Batch “B” Stream I corps members at a Passing Out Parade organised at the Muhammadu Buhari Square, Lokoja. Governor Bello, in his address, urged the corps members to make efforts toward making Nigeria a better place through selfless service, dedication to duty, honesty, integrity, and accountability. Governor Bello said, “I am happy to note that you contributed to the socio-economic development of the state in diverse ways, especially in rural communities, where the majority of you served. We appreciate the sacrifices you made towards the realisations of these developments for the upliftment of the standard of life of the numerous communities in Kogi State.” He noted that their specific contributions to Primary Health Care delivery services, provision of qualitative education and rural infrastructure, and advocacy for Sustainable Development Goals were critical in fostering and promoting the government’s transformation agenda. Governor Bello adds that their deployment to various host communities must have endeared them to the custom and traditions which have consequently broadened their perception and understanding, which are germane to a united Nigeria of our dream. Earlier, the Kogi State NYSC Coordinator, Williams Adebimpe, reiterated the fact that the era of seeking only white-collar jobs was over while admonishing them to put to good use, the various skills acquired through the NYSC Skill Acquisition and Entrepreneurship Development programme. She pointed out that many of their predecessors, who listened to this counsel were today’s business owners and employers of labour, contributing immensely to the country’s Gross Domestic Product. The high point of the event was a cash gift of N10,000 each to all outgoing corps members by the Kogi State Governor, as transport stipends.