The latest statistics made available by the Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board to our correspondent in Abuja on Thursday revealed the top 10 universities with illegal admissions in Nigeria. The statistics covered four years (2017-2020). According to the board, a total of 58,698 fake admissions were conducted by the 10 institutions during the period under review. The board listed the universities as follows; Usmanu Danfodiyo University, Sokoto, with 20,162 illegal admissions; University of Jos, 7,600;  Benue State University, 6,171; University of Nigeria, Nsukka 5,457; Kwara State University, 5,070; Novena University, 3,432; Alex Ekueme University, 2,902; Abubakar Tafawa Balewa University, 2,795; Olabisi Onabanjo University, 2,586, and University of Calabar, 2,523. Saturday PUNCH reports that the board has continually complained over admissions done outside the Central Admissions Processing System. Commenting on the development, the Registrar of the board, Prof. Ishaq Oloyede, said, “The ASUU chairman once went on air to say that some vice chancellors were the ones conducting admissions. I told him to bring me the name of any of the vice chancellors conducting the admissions. “Admissions are conducted via CAPS. Some institutions came to us and told us to give them the grace to rectify the illegal admissions that were conducted outside of CAPs. The minister also forgave them and we told them that any one that is caught will have his or her admission reversed.” Speaking in an interview with our correspondent, the Programme Director, Reform Education Nigeria, Oluwatoyin Ayodamola called on the need for transparency in the conduct of admissions. “There is a need for transparency in the conduct of admissions. Over time, you see some institutions favouring other candidates based on personal relationships with top officials, among others. CAPS introduced by JAMB has been going a long way in ensuring that there is a reduction in the rate of illegal admissions. “The institutions that continue to engage in such should be punished and not allowed to go Scott free,” Ayodamola said.