A traditional ruler in Ogun state, the Ebelu of Esure in Ijebu-Imusin, Ijebu-East Local Government Area, Oba Abdulsamad  Kasali, has raised the alarm over incessant erosion confronting the community. The monarch, therefore, appealed to the state government to quickly rescue the community, its residents and their farm produce from being further swept away by the flooding. Oba Kasali said this during his one year anniversary on the throne, held  in his  Esure home town in the state. The monarch who lauded the state government for the provision of the road network, however, warned that if urgent steps are not taken, the flooding would destroy the roads further and the community. The Ebelu expressed displeasure over the loss of property to incessant flooding. He lamented that, despite the effort of the state government in the provision of road and healthcare, the town is seriously facing the problem of erosion due to the heavy water that comes from about five towns surrounding Esure town. The monarch then appealed to the state government to intervene by constructing drainages to collect water from the five neighbouring  communities in the area. He said, “Esure is facing the challenges of erosion because it is having a sloped ground, and majorly, all the water coming from Imushin, Odunopa and its environ was  channelled towards  to Esure town. “We have been able to execute some projects within one year on the throne; which included, revitalisation and building of a new market in  Ita Esure; provision of Solar power in the town which made the town protected from the activities of criminals who hitherto could hide under darkness to perpetrate their nefarious activities. “We also provided walkie-talkie and security materials to  vigilantes  to help ensure  security of lives and property; construction of drainage channels at Olode street for flow of water  and some other self-executed projects. “We don’t have security issues. We have taken that up by ourselves by setting up a grassroots security. We have been able to empower our health center with money, the St. Albert Great Clinic health center. So, they can be able to do a lot of work. “But I’m appealing to the state government to help channel  the erosion by providing drainage against  the erosion . “We don’t have more problems in terms of Health because it is part of my achievements to  provide  drugs and modern equipment for  operation in the theatre of St. Albert, the Great Clinic in Esure for the service of the indigenes of Esure and Ijebu-Imusin in general.” In his speech, the chairman of the occasion, Chief Abiodun Onanuga, congratulated Oba Kasali and affirmed that; he is a God sent to the people of Esure. Onanuga said the monarch’s one year has ensured provision of social amenities to the town. He said developments have happened in the town during his reign. In her goodwill message, the former Deputy Governor of Ogun State, Yetunde Onanuga, implored the people of Esure to join hands together and give maximum support to Oba Kasali in order to succeed in good things he has embarked on since  his one year as the king.