The Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority has suspended Dana Air’s Air Transport Licence and Air Operator Certificate indefinitely. The is said to take effect from midnight of Wednesday, July 20, 2022. This, the NCAA disclosed in a statement signed by its Director General, Captain Musa Nuhu. The PUNCH learnt that the suspension has since been communicated to the management of Dana Air. The statement partly read, “The decision is the outcome of a financial and economic health audit carried out on the Airline by the Authority, and the findings of an investigation conducted on the Airline’s flight operations recently, which revealed that Dana Air is no longer in a position to meet its financial obligations and to conduct safe flight operations. “The NCAA acknowledges the negative effect this pre-emptive decision will have on the airline’s passengers and the travelling public and seeks their understanding, as the safety of flight operations takes priority over all other considerations.” Meanwhile, Dana Air has reacted to the suspension. While appealing to passengers, the management of the airline promised to cooperate with the NCAA. In its statement, the management of the airline confirmed its suspension. The statement read in part, “Our operations have been suspended as advised by the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority in order to undergo a full operational audit with effect from midnight 20th July, 2022. “Operational audits are regulatory and airlines are obligated to suspend their operations when the NCAA calls for it and we understand the impact this suspension will have on our partners, staff, passengers and the general public but we are very confident that we would come out stronger as we have done in the past. “We crave the understanding and patience of our customers, travel and business partners and sincerely apologise for any inconvenience our short absence from the market might cause. “Our customer service team will continue to operate 24/7 to assist affected customers with necessary information on refunds and our offices will be open to all our existing partners.”