The Nigeria Union of Petroleum and Natural Gas Workers says it will not hesitate to join in the proposed nationwide strike, following the prolonged ASUU, NASU and SSANU industrial actions that have left activities in tertiary institutions paralyzed for the past eight months. In a statement signed by its National President, Williams Akporeha, and General Secretary, Afolabi Olawale, the union joined others to condemn the lackadaisical attitude of the Federal Government towards finding a lasting solution to the crisis. “We are deeply worried that the strike has left thousands of university students stranded and idle, making some of them susceptible to go into various social vices and crimes, thus truncating what otherwise should have been wonderful assets and blessings to our great nation and humanity.” The union described the strike as “unfortunate and a sad” commentary on the level of governance and sensitivity of the political leaders, adding that it showed the insensitivity of the current administration towards promoting and projecting good and quality education. “We are seriously concerned that instead of addressing the nagging issues in the educational sector, the unscrupulous politicians are busy campaigning and wasting resources over 2023 general elections. “It is against this background that NUPENG demands together with other trade unions, that the Federal Government must immediately address and resolve all demands of ASUU, NASU and SSANU without any further delay to avert national solidarity actions from our members across the country,” the statement said. The statement further said that the rank-and-file members of NUPENG aligned with the NLC’s position on protest against the unfortunate situations in the tertiary education sector and would not hesitate to join in the proposed nationwide strike on the matter. “A stitch in time saves nine. To be forewarned is to be forearmed. We are by copy of this press statement putting all our members on alert to be in solidarity actions on the directive of Nigeria Labour Congress at very short notice. Our Solidarity remains constant, for the Union makes us strong,” the union said.