•Lawal to supervise justice ministry, others The Oyo State House of Assembly on Monday removed Mr Rauf Olaniyan as the deputy governor of the state. The lawmakers quickly approved the nomination of Adebayo Lawal as replacement. Shortly after the approval, the state Chief Judge, Justice Munta Abimbola, also inaugurated Lawal as Olaniyan’s successor. Olaniyan’s removal by the Peoples Democratic Party-dominated House followed the recommendations of the seven-man panel raised by the Chief Judge to probe the allegations of financial recklessness, gross misconduct and insubordination among others levelled against Olaniyan. Governor Seyi Makinde quickly nominated Lawal, a lawyer and the Chairman, Oyo State Housing Corporation, as the new deputy governor. The nomination of Lawal, who had already been appointed by Makinde as his running mate for the 2023 governorship election, was quickly approved by the lawmakers. Lawal, who is from the same Oke-Ogun area like his predecessor, hails from Kisi in the Irepo Local Government Area. The new deputy’s nomination was contained in a letter by the governor to the lawmakers, which was presented at the plenary. The lawmakers went on a short recess shortly after Olaniyan was removed as the deputy governor. They later reconvened at about 12.15pm to consider the appointment of the new deputy governor. The Speaker, Adebo Ogundoyin, while reading the letter from the Executive, said it was in response to an earlier letter sent by the lawmakers to the governor dated July 18, informing him of Olaniyan’s impeachment. The Majority Leader, Sanjo Adedoyin, who moved the motion for the removal of Olaniyan also said the nomination of Lawal should be approved in view of his antecedents in contributing to the progress of the state. Seconding the motion, Kazeem Olayanju, representing Irepo/Olorunsogo State Constituency, said the House should confirm Lawal as the new deputy governor of Oyo State. The speaker put the nomination to a voice vote, which went the ways of the “ayes”. Olaniyan faults process Meanwhile, the sacked deputy, Olaniyan, has faulted the Chief Judge of the state over the constitution of the seven-man panel which recommended his removal from office. In a statement on Monday by his lawyer, Afolabi Fashanu (SAN), Olaniyan said the panel set up to investigate the allegations raised against him was paid to do the lawmakers’ bidding. The statement read, “The investigation by the committee set up by the Chief Judge is a charade that cannot stand the test of time. “In the first instance, the Chief Judge, with respect, breached his oath of office by ignoring the service of notice of appeal and application for injunction pending appeal when he proceeded to constitute the investigation committee. “This is against established law and practice. On the part of the panel, they were appointed and paid to do bodge and botched jobs, which must be contrary to good conscience. “They served the Deputy Governor on Friday around 10.45am and asked him to appear at 11am. In our letter to inform them that His Excellency needed time to prepare for his defence, in their desperation to do the job for which they were paid, they rejected the letter, sat on Saturday, and completed their task the same day. “Where is the fairness here? Members of the committee are supposed to be men above board. You have a Reverend Father, JP, Alhaji among them. This is clear evidence that we are not yet ripe for democratic practice.” Lawal inaugurated Consequently, the state Chief Judge has inaugurated Lawal as the new deputy governor of the state. The swearing-in was held at the Executive Chamber of the Governor’s Office, Agodi Secretariat, Ibadan. Makinde said, “The position of the deputy governor is a position of trust and our masters are the people of the state. “Let me encourage you to put the interest of the good people of Oyo State first. “You will continue to supervise the Housing Corporation even from your position as the Deputy Governor. Oyo State Road Maintenance Agency will also be under your direct supervision. The Ministry of Justice will also be under your directive, having served as the Attorney General and Commissioner for Justice of the state in time past.” Shortly after the inauguration, Lawal told journalists that his new role would be performed with full trust and loyalty to the government of Oyo State. The new deputy governor thanked Makinde for finding him worthy of the task, assuring that he would use all within his disposal to complement and ensure more service delivery to the people of the state in line with the visions of the Makinde-led administration.