The Minister of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development, Sadiya Umar Farouq, on Tuesday, cautioned the Independent Monitors of the National Social Investment Programme against intimidating beneficiaries of the scheme. She gave the warning in her remarks at the inauguration ceremony for the onboarding and training of 3,000 Stream 2 Independent Monitors of the NSIP in Yenagoa, Bayelsa State. Farouq, who was represented by the Team Lead, Margaret Chuka-Ogwude, said that any independent monitor caught harassing beneficiaries would be sanctioned accordingly and handed over to relevant authorities. She noted that independent monitors were one of the most important components of the NSIP and the ministry laid special emphasis on ensuring its programmes are closely monitored. She urged the Stream 2 independent monitors to take the training seriously and upload their field reports daily on the Social Investment Management Information System application to reflect the implementation of the programme in various communities in the state. Addressing the participants, Farouq said, “All state NSIP officials are here today, and I ask you to work closely with them. No intimidation of beneficiaries by an Independent Monitor will be accepted by the Ministry. “Any Independent Monitor found intimidating or harassing a beneficiary will be taken off the programme. “Be informed that we have officials of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission and the Department of State Services working with us on this programme, and those found culpable will be handed over to relevant authorities.” Farouq said the ministry was also collaborating with non-governmental organisations and civil society groups that would support the monitors in their monitoring assignment. Also speaking, the Bayelsa State Coordinator of NSIP, Amiekumo Ebieritei, explained that the independent monitors would monitor the beneficiaries of the Conditional Cash Transfer, N-Power, Government Enterprise and Empowerment Programme and the Home Grown School Feeding Programme. She said they would be posted to the eight local government areas of the state and their monitoring exercise would be aided by the tablets given to them as working tools by the ministry. In separate interviews, two of the independent monitors, Ernest Smart and Edith Ugwuchinenye, said the training had prepared them for the task ahead as well as the effective use of the device for monitoring and field reports. “As one of the independent monitors, I have understood more of the programme. The training has enlightened me. I’m looking forward to working with the school children, seeing them being fed in school just the way we hear is being done in the North,” Ugwuchinenye said.