Former Senate President Bukola has commended the efforts of the Independent National Electoral Commission, and security agencies in the just concluded governorship election in Osun State. Saraki noted that INEC and the security agencies were impartial, noting that they allowed the votes of the people to count in the state. Saraki said this, Sunday morning, via his verified Twitter handle, @bukolasaraki. “I commend INEC and the security agencies, who largely were impartial and allowed the votes of the people of Osun to be reflected in the actual results,” Saraki tweeted. The PUNCH had earlier reported that the Police Public Relations Officer, Force Headquarters, Abuja, Olumuyiwa Adejobi, had also noted that the police were now finding it easy to handle elections across the country, noting that the 2023 elections would not be a challenge for the force. The PUNCH reports that INEC declared the candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party, Senator Ademola Adeleke, the winner of the Osun governorship election. The Returning Officer for the election and Vice Chancellor of the University of Lagos, Prof. Oluwatoyin Ogundipe, announced that Adeleke got a total of 403,371 votes beating the incumbent, Adegboyega Oyetola of the All Progressives Congress, who got 375,027 votes in a keenly contested race. He said, “I declare Adeleke Ademola Jackson Nurudeen, on behalf of the chairman of INEC, of the PDP, having satisfied the requirement of the law, is hereby declared the winner and he is returned elected.” According to the total votes recorded by the electoral umpire, the PDP won 17 of the 30 Local Government Areas of the state, while the APC won the remaining 13. The PDP won in Ede North, Ede South, Ifelodun, Boluwaduro, Egbedore, Odo Otin, Osogbo, Ila, Atakumosa West, Olorunda, Ilesa West, Obokun, Oriade, Orolu, Ife North, Irepodun, and Ejigbo LGAs. The APC, on the other hand, won in Boripe, Ilesa East, Ayedire, Ifedayo, Ife Central, Ayedaade, Iwo, Olaoluwa, Isokan, Atakumosa East, Irewole, Ife South, and Ife East LGAs.