EDIDIONG IKPOTO speaks with the President of the Nigerian-British Chamber of Commerce, Bisi Adeyemi, on the state of the economy and how to bolster the country’s industrial sector The CBN recently increased the lending rate in Nigeria from 11.5 per cent to 13 per cent. How do you think this will impact businesses? Following what the Monetary Policy Committee considered a decent GDP growth run (3.01 per cent, 3.9 per cent), it opted for a hike in rates to contain inflation, control the rising money supply, prevent capital flow reversal and further depreciation of the Naira in the face of policy normalisation in advanced and emerging economies. The implications for businesses, however, are that cost of funds would be higher as banks would reprice existing loans to reflect the change in the base rate. As a result of this, a business may cut back on incurring capital expenses which can, in turn, slow down productivity and negatively impact the bottom line. Since lending to the private sector may contract, we are not very optimistic about the Purchasing Managers Index data for the next few months. Also, being a pre-election year, foreign investors would tend to hold back while large spending by politicians would ensure that the money supply rises. The demand for FX will continue to rise, leading inevitably to a further depreciation of the naira. According to data by the National Bureau of Statistics, Nigeria’s trade deficit as of 2021 Q4 stood at N173bn. What needs to happen for Nigeria to improve export of products? To readjust its trade balance, Nigeria needs to, in the near-term, deal with its idle oil production terminals to ramp up oil production.  In the medium to long term, we must draw up a modern industrialisation policy that would address input import cost, electricity supply and other infrastructural challenges preventing manufacturers from producing at competitive costs. Nigeria must pivot from exporting primary products to more complex and valuable products. Meanwhile, the 650,000-barrel capacity Dangote refinery is expected to reduce the country’s import bill significantly. After refined oil, durum wheat is Nigeria’s major import item, local alternatives like hard wheat and cassava need to be considered as ready alternatives. Nigeria has battled inflation figures this year. What needs to be done to address this? Nigeria’s inflation has risen steadily in 2022. The rise in inflation can be primarily attributed to rising energy costs associated with the Russian invasion of Ukraine, the depreciated Naira, higher food prices caused by the level of insecurity in the farming belt, as well as rising money supply, and CBN lending to the government.To contain inflation, the government must review the 41-item FX restriction list. It also must reduce borrowing from the CBN, something it currently does to the extent that it violates the CBN Act. Also, the CBN must use other monetary policy instruments to mop up excess liquidity. Food inflation can be moderated if the spate of kidnapping and general insecurity is addressed by the Federal Government. What does the NBCC think can be done to help businesses cushion the effects of the current energy crisis? Governments can provide solar power as a cheaper and cleaner alternative to fuel. Governments elsewhere are protecting consumer purchasing power by imposing a windfall tax on energy firms that are recording large revenues. Such would ensure that a reallocation of spending does not result in substantially lower demand for manufacturers of non-essential items. Finally, the government can provide stimulus packages for firms in specific sectors such as tax reductions or waivers.. There is a global target of net-zero carbon emissions by 2050. Do you think the energy trajectory of Nigerian businesses show any realistic chance of meeting this global benchmark? The Nigerian government, although a signatory to the French Climate Accord, has maintained that the African continent contributes the least to greenhouse gas emissions and so must receive concession regarding the net-zero agenda. The country is adopting gas and also fossil fuels as a cleaner and more sustainable source of energy. Going by the geopolitical tensions and the sanctions that have followed, Nigeria and the world are rethinking fossil fuels. Can you tell us about the Nigerian-British Chamber of Commerce? The Nigerian-British Chamber of Commerce is the foremost bilateral chamber of commerce in Nigeria. It was established in 1977 with the focus on fostering goodwill and increasing trade and investment opportunities between Nigeria and the United Kingdom. The NBCC is affiliated with the British chambers of commerce which give members beneficial access to a network of 53 chambers across the UK and 71 other international affiliates. The chamber carries out various activities, targeted at the promotion of trade, investment, advocacy, business incubation, training, and business networking. We seek to continually create value for our members and facilitate business-to-business relationships. In line with our objective to promote trade and investment through networking, the chamber has sectored its membership into groups representing various segments of the economy to better engage members and adequately articulate their needs.  These groups include- Agriculture & Export, Construction, and Real Estate, Creatives & Cultural, Education & Training, MSME, Oil & Energy, Professional Services, and Technology. In terms of impact and relevance, our chamber is unarguably one of the busiest in the country, hosting between three and four programmes monthly. These programmes include our ‘Sharing Experiences’ series where captains of industry share experiences on how they grew their businesses despite the odds. We have hosted Mr. Atedo Peterside, Mr. Jim Ovia, Mr. Aigboje Imoukuede, and Mrs. Adenike Ogunlesi, amongst others, on this platform. We also have the” Meet the Governor” series –  under which we have had the governors of Lagos, Ogun, Ondo, and Edo share with our audience investment opportunities in their respective states. Other programmes include advocacy roundtables – where we engage with policymakers and operators to identify and proffer solutions to challenges facing businesses. We also have the Training and Development Week – under which we offer a bouquet of management and entrepreneurial training for a whole week; the MSME Expert in Residence as well as the MSME Advisory Clinic. We have recently established the Tech Academy & Incubator with the first cohort scheduled to commence on the 4th of July 2022. Each cohort will run for a three-month period. The call for applications is ongoing. The academy will train participants in Data Analytics, UI/UX Design &Product Management. With the support of our partners, this training is being provided free to intending participants. What role does the UK play in the overall structure and philosophy of the NBCC? The chamber promotes increased trade between Nigeria and the UK, and our activities support the inflow of capital and investment into Nigeria from the UK. In this regard, we work collaboratively with the British High Commission and the Department for International Trade. To continue to ensure we bring on board more British businesses, we have a committee dedicated to this headed by Vice President Steve Smith. We also collaborate with the British Business Group and the Nigerian Britain Association in the pursuit of value for our members to want to expand their business to the UK. As a chamber of commerce, is the NBCC involved in advocacy? Yes, the NBCC is very much involved in advocacy and it is one of the cardinal pillars of the chamber. The thrust of our advocacy arm is two-fold. It includes identifying government policies and processes that affect our members’ interests and also acting as the voice of the members to effect change in such policies and processes. We work to shape policy to improve the ease of doing business by hosting advocacy roundtables featuring policy experts, heads of government agencies and other stakeholders. In pursuit of these objectives, we have paid numerous courtesy visits to various government agencies and parastatals and these have yielded significant results for our members. Amongst these are BPE, NAFDAC, NIPC, and CBN, to mention but a few. On the 11th of May 2022, the Advocacy Committee of the Chamber chaired by Ms. Anne Rinu, head of properties, Nigeria and West Africa, Standard Chartered Bank Plc, hosted an advocacy roundtable webinar on export trade themed, ‘Eliminating Barriers in the Nigeria Export Process’. We had in attendance CBN’s Director of Monetary Policy, Dr. Mahmud Bello, and representatives from the NEPC and NEXIM Bank. In line with our objectives of deepening trade relations with the UK, we had the Deputy Head of Governance and Networks, Trade Directorate, Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office, Mr. Stephen Cartwright as well as the Vice-Chair of the British Business Group, Mr. Stanley Evans MBE. Following the positive feedback received from the participants and by popular demand, the chamber would be holding a 2nd edition of the Advocacy Roundtable on Export. This event would hold at the NBCC headquarters on the 10th of August 2022 with the focus on the ‘State of the Nigerian Ports – Impact on the Ease of Doing Business’. It will address the issue of port congestion delays and loss of cargo at the ports, among others. The NBCC holds regular breakfast meetings. What is the focus of these meetings? The NBCC holds regular meetings for members and non-members.  These meetings are typically stakeholder-impactful platforms that bring together policymakers, business leaders, and other stakeholders to address and dialogue on key issues and ideas relevant to various sectors. These events are designed to optimally benefit partner organisations and attendees to reinforce their organisational brands, keep up with the latest industry news and trends, and also creatively and effectively promote their businesses to target demographics. The meetings also provide great networking opportunities.