Malt brand, Maltina has joined the people of Kano State in the commemoration of the Eid-El-Kabir celebration and Durbar Festival. The brand donated brand new power bikes, safety helmets and jackets to the Kano State Road Transport Agency for more efficient security patrol and effective traffic management. The Chairman, Nigerian Breweries Plc, Chief Kolawole Jamodu, said the donations were a part of the brand’s commitment to sharing happiness by giving northern Muslim faithful an exceptional celebratory experience. Receiving the donations on behalf of the Emir of Kano was the representative of the Managing Director, KAROTA, Alhaji Ahmed Isa Disu, the agency’s revenue director, who commended the generous gesture of Maltina, adding that it would go a long way towards minimising traffic congestion on Kano roads. During the festivities, traffic control officials could be seen on the branded Maltina power bikes, directing the influx of tourists and ensuring a free flow of vehicles and pedestrians. Also, northern consumers were treated to a great experience at the Maltina Happiness Park in the palace of the Emir as many, through raffle draws won numerous gifts to celebrate the holiday season ranging from rams,  bags of rice, praying mats, bicycles, cans of malt etc. Maltina Brand Manager, Ifeyinwa Madu, while speaking at the occasion, said the fun park identifies with the huge cultural heritage and culture of the good people of Kano, during Durbar, featuring men, clad with unique traditional attires riding on colourfully decorated horses during the yearly event. ‘’The North has always been key to us generally as a brand, Kano in particular and we have held a series of events in Kano, ranging from the last Arewa festival, during which Maltina organised games in Kano and other northern states. “Durbar, is a big and unique festival, where you have colourful horses, as people come together to share happiness. It is a cultural event, showcasing the rich cultural heritage of the Northern community.” “So, what other brand is best to associate itself with other than Maltina, which brings happiness to the people and ignites happy moments when you bring people together.” “We have impacted the less privileged people in Kano via different schemes that have not only addressed but empowered people. For example, sometime in February, we held an empowerment scheme, handed over branded Maltina kiosks to the indigenous community, towards uplifting their mini business enterprise to the next level. It would go a long way toward providing food for themselves and their respective family members.”