Stakeholders and members of the All Progressive Congress in Zamfara State have called for an end to banditry and insecurity as a condition for them to vote the presidential flagbearer, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, and other candidates vying for electoral positions. Their position was clarified on Wednesday evening during the fact-finding tour of a delegation from APC North West to all the seven states in the geopolitical zone. The development is coming less than seven months to the 2023 general elections slated for February 25, 2023. In a statement issued on Wednesday night by APC Zonal Publicity Secretary (North West), Musa Mailafiya Mada, a delegation led Malam Salihu Lukman-led delegation met with party stakeholders in Birnin Kebbi, the Kebbi State capital. The statement read, “As the Fact-Finding tour of the North West Zonal Officials of All Progressives Congress reaches Zamfara today, stakeholders of the party in the State assured the Zonal Chairman Malam Salihu Lukman and his team that they have their unflinching loyalty. “They also said that they are united in all fronts to give the party the required result necessary to claim the state in totality. “Yet, they demand the commitment of the presidential and all other candidates vying for electoral posts from the party for them to deliver the state to them.” According to the stakeholders, Zamfara is an APC State that metamorphosed from APP/ANPP into APC since 1999. They further noted that nothing can change that for the fact that people who matter in the state politically are inseparably united in APC. “Yet, the party’s stakeholders demand a serious commitment on deteriorating security situation in the State and the region from anybody vying for any electoral post especially the presidential candidate from the party to work for his success,” they stated. While appreciating the Zamfara stakeholders for their sincerity, APC National Vice Chairman for North West, Malam Salihu Lukman, pledged to take their demand to persons concerned with no hesitation. Lukman stated that the assessment report made from the interaction with the party stakeholders across the Zone is being compiled and will also be taken to the APC National Chairman, Abdullahi Adamu, after the tour of the geographical region. The North West national vice chairman, who expressed satisfaction with the depth of Zamfara APC loyalty, saluted their courage for opening up on their conditions before casting their votes ahead of the 2023 general elections.