Fans of two popular Nollywood actresses, Ada Ameh and Sola Onayiga, have mourned their passing after the news of their death went viral on Monday. Ameh, who had been battling an illness, reportedly collapsed during an outing on Sunday. PUNCH Metro gathered that she gave up the ghost while being rushed to the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation Hospital. Prior to the incident, she took to her Instagram page and shared a video of herself eating with her host family. Ada, who died at the age of 48, was popular for her role in the family comic series, The Johnsons. She was born on May 15, 1974, in Ajegunle, Lagos, and rose to fame after playing the role of Anita in the 1996 blockbuster, Domitila. She lost her only child in October 2020 and hinted in June that she battled mental illness. The Delta State Police Public Relations Officer, DSP Bright Edafe, could not be reached for comments as of the time of filing this report. While fans were still mourning her, a movie critic, Husseini Shaibu, broke the news of the death of veteran actress, Onayiga. He tweeted, “Just learnt that the accomplished stage and screen actress and Fellow of Theatre Arts Auntie Sola Awojobi Onayiga passed on today. “Auntie Sola is best known for living delightfully the role of Ireti aka Cooking practicals in the defunct TV sitcom ‘Checkmate’! Journey well, Ma!” Onayiga was popular for her role as Ireti in the now-defunct family drama, Fuji House of Commotion. Reacting to the news of their death, a Twitter user, @folakemiajayi_, said, “I didn’t expect waking up to the news of the death of Sola Onayiga (Ireti of Fuji House of Commotion) and Ada Ameh (Mrs Emu Johnson of The Johnsons). Their death hits me in the chest because these are 2 actresses who made me love the popular TV shows they appeared in.” On his part, @trendinginfo9ja said, “Two great losses in a day. Sola Onayiga and Ada Ameh. May God rest your souls in peace.  For many years, you both graced our screens and put smiles on our faces, we will always remember you.”