Vice President Yemi Osinbajo on Thursday said the country now stands an inch taller because of the accomplishment of the internationally acclaimed Nigerian biker, Mr Kunle Adeyanju. According to a statement signed late Thursday by his Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity, Lolu Akande, Osinbajo said this when he received Adeyanju who recently rode a motorbike from London to Lagos promoting the “End Polio” campaign, at his official residence, Aguda House, Presidential Villa, Abuja. The statement is titled ‘You have made us proud, Osinbajo tells diaspora biker, Adeyanju.’ Speaking to Adeyanju, the Vice President said, “Your achievements have made us all proud, we are all standing much taller on account of what you have done. And I know that this is just the beginning of the many more ways by which you will promote Nigeria and Africa.” “There is a lot in our country that we must be extremely proud of. We must tell our own story just as Kunle has said. Our story is worth hearing and we must tell our story first to ourselves because we need to get our self-esteem back as a people. “We must tell our stories to ourselves and we must understand who we are and what our strengths are. We are resilient, strong, innovative, and creative. In this country, just in about 5 to 6 years, 7 tech companies have become Unicorns (i.e. companies worth over a billion dollars), in this same country and all started by young Nigerians.” Commending the Bikers’ community in the country, Prof. Osinbajo said “The work that you are doing all over the country, promoting unity is important. The truth of the matter about unity is that the average Nigerian does not ask questions about where you come from, Nigerians are united wherever you find them. “Go to the markets, go anywhere, you find that Nigerians relate to each other as Nigerians. I have been all over this country, those who promote ethnicity, promote religious superiority are people who want to advance their personal interests. “I think that those of you who have a message of unity to preach must continue to do so. This country is strong and this country is the way it is only because of the very many parts that we are, we are 200 million strong from everywhere. And all of us have everything that it takes to excel.” On his part, the diaspora Biker shared his experience coursing 12,000 kilometers from London to Lagos, an adventure which, he said, turned into a charity ride. Adeyanju said he flew Nigeria’s flag proudly and discovered that the story of Africa, including Nigeria, has not been correctly told in the international media, hence his decision to write a book about his experience riding from Europe to Africa. He explained that his lifted fist signature while on the journey was copied from the Vice President indicative of Africa’s resilience and strength even in the face of adversity. Another highpoint of the visit was the presentation of the bikers’ regalia to the Vice President and some of the symbolic exercises demonstrated by the bikers. Adeyanju was accompanied by other bikers drawn from across the country. The delegation also included Chairman of Nigerians in Diaspora Commission, Abike Dabiri-Erewa, and District Governor of Rotary Club District 9125, Mr Goddy Nnadi, among other officials.