A former National Commissioner of the Independent National Electoral Commission, Prof. Lai Olurode, has commended the president, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), for the transparent, credible and nonviolent governorship poll held in Osun State last Saturday. Prof. Olurode said the modifications of the amended Electoral Act signed into the law by the president contributed to the success of the election. A statement by Olurode, obtained by our correspondent, further read, “It would be recalled that, with minor modifications, the president signed the amended Electoral Act into law. Without any doubt, the Act contributed to the success of the election. In a large number of ways, the amendments to the Act checkmate electoral malfeasance and indeed the caustic role of money in politics, impunity and electoral rascals. “Some people were arrested for corrupting the electoral system. Secondly, the body language of Mr. President shows that his concern was above petty party politics. The country, to him, is more important. He is the President of all and not the APC. He himself had suffered from flawed elections. “In allowing, other stakeholders, and particularly, security (agencies), to do their job professionally, a  level playing ground was created for all stakeholders to assert their independence and were thus able to provide election security without let or hindrance. The President simply refused to deploy the power of incumbency to deliver Osun State at all cost to the ruling party.” Olurode also commended INEC for the good training that was imparted on its ad hoc staff, adding that the Commission had learned from mistakes of the recent past. “Logistics was far better. There was timely arrival of election materials at polling units by ad hoc staff.  Security agents weren’t overzealous  in the discharge of their professional duties. “The police provided good leadership in this respect. And the electorate were dogged in their determination to be part of the electoral process. The ballot was believed to be a weapon to change their narratives and alter life experiences for good,” Olurode concluded.