The New Nigeria People’s Party in Bauchi State has suspended its acting Chairman in the state, Alhaji Sani Shehu, popularly known as Sanin Malam. His suspension which was for “gross indiscipline and disrespect to the leadership of the party”, was contained in a letter dated July 13th, 2022 and addressed to him. The North-East Zonal Secretary of the NNPP, Babayo Liman, who signed the letter and read it to journalists during a press conference held at the Secretariat of the Nigeria Union of Journalists, Bauchi State Council, on Wednesday, warned Shehu to stop parading himself as the acting chairman pending investigations of the allegations against him. The letter read, “Your actions for not collecting the query issued to you on July 6th, 2022, have been categorized as gross indiscipline and disrespect to the leadership of the party. “You are, by this letter, suspended from parading yourself as the acting Chairman of the party in Bauchi State pending the outcome of the National Executive Council decision in respect of the allegations leveled against you.” The letter added that suspension would be communicated to relevant authorities for their information and further necessary action, “as a caretaker Chairman will soon be announced to carry on the activities of the NNPP Office in Bauchi State.” Liman also read to journalists, the query written to the suspended acting Chairman which he claimed, Shehu refused to collect. He said that sometime in June 2022, in the presence of the public, the Zonal National Chairman and Zonal National Secretary North East, Shehu challenged and insulted the National Board of Trustee Secretary General, Engr. Buba. Galadima, in Abuja without any reason. He added that during the Bauchi State NNPP stakeholders meeting with the National Executive, in Abuja, he repeatedly insulted Galadima which resulted in his argument with the National Leader and presidential candidate of our great party Sen. Rabiu Musa Kwankwaso. “You did not apologize for your actions, even when you were advised to resign based on your attitudes until the National Chairman of the party apologized on your behalf. “That you also repeated the challenge and insulted this time around to the Coordinator of the screening committee in the person of Dr. Yusuf Kofan Mata during another meeting with the National Leader Sen. Rabiu Musa Kwankwaso which also resulted in another argument between you and the National leader. “That unconfirmed report revealed to the Zonal Headquarters that you constituted a committee in collaboration with some candidates to visit all the 20 LGA of Bauchi State with the aims of changing some candidate and LGA Executives in the state without permission. “That another information also revealed to the Zonal Headquarters that you are collecting money from stakeholders and NNPP candidates in the state for renting an office as well as for organizing a meeting in the State. And from the information received by this Office, since you assumed office you didn’t conduct any meeting except once when the National leader questioned you for not conducting executives meeting in the state and the venue of the meeting and NNPP State office was a donation by the Zonal National Secretary Dr. Babayo Liman, in Bauchi State. “That unconfirmed report also revealed to the Zonal Headquarters that you are making arrangements with some opposition parties in the State to carry on anti-party which is against the NNPP,” The letter directed Shehu to “write a letter of apology to the National Leader Sen. Rabiu Musa Kwankwaso, Engr. Buba Galadima, the National Chairman and all National Executives through the National Zonal Headquarters North-East within 48 hours of the receipt of this query in the alternative why not disciplinary actions shouldn’t be taken against you.”