Alhaji Yahaya Abdullahi, the Senator representing Kebbi North senatorial district and former Senate Majority Leader, discusses his reasons for defecting from the All Progressive Congress to the Peoples Democratic Party in this interview with TOPE OMOGBOLAGUN You were the Senate majority leader until your defection letter was read in plenary a few weeks ago. You complained about marginalisation in your letter. Could you please elaborate? I left that position because of what I perceived as marginalisation, absence of any concern for democracy and the democratic ethos in the way in which the last primaries were conducted in my state. I saw it coming for a long time because of the attitude of those who control the party, the governor  (Atiku Bagudu) and his associates. They decapitated the party.  Everything was stated in the letter I wrote to the Senate and the chairman of the party. I complained about the primaries that were conducted in the state. I haven’t received any reply from the chairman about the letter yet, so I thought the party really had no place for me.  If the party has no place for me, why should I be there? I had to resign my membership of the party (APC) and moved to the Peoples Democratic Party. Did you believe that defecting from the ‘crises-ridden’ Kebbi APC to the PDP and forfeiting your position as the Senate Majority Leader worth the sacrifice? My personal honour is more important to me than any office. I was elected by the people. My political associates could not get any form of respect from the governor. What can I be given to abandon all my people? I think that it is immoral to remain in a place where my people are not welcomed.  So, it’s better for me to keep my own personal honour to be with my people who have suffered in the last seven years. Why didn’t you challenge the governor and fight for your place since you are a founding member of the APC in Kebbi State? We did.  We tried to do that. In fact, my colleague, Adamu Aliero, and I resisted and tried to stop him since July last year. We opted for various levels of interventions. The North-West governors tried to find a resolution to this crisis but every time the governor would come to make would-not-be-fulfilled promises. As the conducted primaries approached, we met with the national chairman of the party (APC) and all the stakeholders, but the governor didn’t budge, forgetting that he (the governor) came into the party from the PDP, just about a week before the governorship primaries (in 2018) and we gave him the governorship ticket. Bagudu (the governor) didn’t participate in the formation of the party, but he’s now there to destroy it.  The party’s national headquarters, the governors and other party stakeholder’s inability to sit him (Bagudu) down and call him to order made us leave the party for them. You claimed the governor was undemocratic in his actions. Could you cite one or two relevant instances to back that up? We started as a stakeholder conference in 2021 and met at the Government House, all of us, including Bagudu as the chairman. We said, “Okay, you’re the leader of the party but as a leader, you must do justice to everybody.” Then it was agreed at the meeting that we should adopt a consensus method of primaries.  It was agreed that we should maintain the status quo for those in various offices, with the exception of those who were dead, those who left the party and others who were too sick to continue. We did the ward primaries and compiled a list of all the incumbent elected officers in accordance with the agreement. By the time we gave the list to the party, the governor went with his boys to the Government House and removed the names of almost everybody, particularly those who started the party together with us. He removed their names and substituted them with people he wanted. He did it at the ward, local and state level. Prior to that, he illegally decapitated the elected leadership of the party and set up a kangaroo committee made up of his own commissioners. He even removed the state’s party chairman, treasurer and financial secretary. When the state Publicity Secretary saw all of these coming, he left the party. We complained to Mallam Buni at that time and a committee somehow was set up because he was the chairman of the APC governors. The committee didn’t work out. Meanwhile, there was no election and the governor just came out to say that there was a consensus. Which consensus? There was no consensus anywhere. He made his own consensus with his homeboys. He didn’t do anything. Nobody was elected. In fact, there wasn’t even a bonafide list of delegates that would vote at the election. Bagudu and his boys just simply went to compile names. I’ve never seen that kind of effrontery in my life. I am older than the elder brother of the governor himself. I’m 72 years old. Are you insisting no senatorial primaries took place in Kebbi State? There was nothing. Who were the delegates?  Where were they elected? Which ward held an election? All they did was to write names. Is that democracy? Similarly, a lot of these things happened everywhere. That’s why the whole thing was like a charade. The governor just simply collected, put some people together and called them delegates. Today, the delegates you know who elected a senator will be different from the ones that elected the House of Representatives members. There’s no way I would see the list of delegates and not know at least one of them. With similar complaints coming from other states and not Kebbi State alone, do you think the APC governors are too powerful now? They are allowed to be powerful.  You say the President is the leader at the centre. The only thing that the President did was to support one person. He said that he stood by the national chairman, but all the members of the National Working Committee were nominated by the governance. Hence, when the NWC says something, the governors will just gang up and get other members of the same committee to oppose it. The President is not even controlling the national structure of the party itself. It is the governors who are controlling it and then they also control what happens in the party and the structures in their respective states The party has no control over its chapters at the state, local government and ward levels. Today, the national chairman of the APC will not write or call the chairman of the local government and say that “I am the national chairman of the party to do this or that.”  They are not answerable to him. Even the PDP has this kind of problem. Do you think that it will help if governors are not leaders of the party? In saner climes, the party leadership should be vested in the party chairman and there also should be a national chairman of the party. The former should be the latter’s subordinate. The governor should be an obedient member of the party in the state. The party chairman, who was elected by party members, should be the one to tell the governor what to do. Here, we put the cart before the horse and it’s a national malaise. It was started by the former President, Olusegun Obasanjo, when he wanted to manipulate the status-quo to achieve his third-term agenda, which collapsed. Within seven years that he was in power, he changed the leadership of the Senate five times. It started with Obasanjo, but now it has gone beyond even his own (Obasanjo’s) understanding because it has grown like a monster as it continues to undermine the entire national democratic process. I can’t sit down and allow myself to be walked out. What is happening to this country’s democracy is dangerous. It can lead to a total democratic collapse and people like me will not sit down and watch that happen.