Gunmen have invaded the residence of Reverend Daniel Umaru of the EYN Church Njairi, Mubi Local Government Area of Adamawa State, killing his sons and abducting his 13-year-old daughter. The incident occurred on Tuesday night, on the same day unknown gunmen attacked an advanced team, on the convoy of the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.,) which was on its way to Katsina, ahead of the Sallah celebrations. Umaru, who reportedly survived the attacks, on his residence is said to be in critical condition while his wife is yet to come out of a coma over the gruesome murder of their two sons in the attacks. According to reports, the unknown gunmen, who stormed the residence of Reverend Daniel, at about 2:00 GMT shot, him and his two sons who died instantly from the gunfire. The gruesome attack was said to have left his wife, who thought the husband died, to fall into a coma, as the gunmen also made away with their only daughter. The clergy is currently recuperating at the hospital, though in critical condition while his wife who witnessed the attack, is reportedly still in a coma as of yesterday (Wednesday). The state Police Public Relations Officer, SP Suleiman Nguroje, who confirmed the attack, said the attackers stormed the residence of the clergyman located in Mararaba Mubi around 1-2 am, in the early hours of Wednesday. He said the police commissioner in the state has deployed its personnel to rescue the abducted daughter of the cleric, while it has made available a huge financial reward for anyone with information that will lead to arrest of the culprits. Also, the state Governor, Ahmadu Fintiri, who’s currently on Hajj pilgrimage, while reacting to the incident, said the government would stop at nothing in bringing the perpetrators to book. In a press release, signed by his Chief Press Secretary, Humwashi Wonosikou, Fintiri described the attack as “shocking and barbaric” and charged security operatives to go after the attackers. Fintiri said, “The State Government condemns in the strongest terms the despicable attack on this innocent family; the perpetrators of this heinous act must be brought to justice, and we have offered our full support to the Security Agencies to do so.” Fintiri who offered his “deepest condolences” to the victims’ families and loved ones, including the Church, assured that his government will continue to confront crime in all its forms, including the threat posed by kidnappers.