Some Senior Advocates of Nigeria have backed the judgment by an Industrial Court in Abuja on Friday, which asked the National Assembly, the Revenue Mobilisation Allocation and Fiscal Commission and the Attorney General of the Federation to urgently initiate measures to ensure the upward review of the salaries and allowances of judges in the country. Justice Osatohanmwen Obaseki-Osaghae, who issued the order, held that the current salaries and allowances of judicial officers in the country were not only abysmally low but embarrassing. Obaseki-Osaghae gave the order while delivering judgment in a suit filed against the Federal Government by Chief Sebastine Hon (SAN). She ordered the Federal Government to commence a monthly payment of N10m to the Chief Justice of Nigeria, N9m to other Justices of the Supreme Court, and N9m to the President of the Court of Appeal. Also, other Justices of the Appellate Court will get N8m; Chief Judges of both Federal and States High Courts, N8m; while Judges of the Federal and States High Courts will receive N7m. The judge held that the refusal of the government to review the judicial officers’ salaries and allowances for 14 years was unconstitutional, unlawful and should be compelled to do the needful. Justice Obaseki-Osaghae lamented that it was unfortunate that justices and judges who were ministers in the temple of justice had become victims of injustice in the country. Reacting to this judgment, Mr Ebun Adegboruwa, SAN, said the N10m salary for the CJN was ‘peanut’ and should have been reviewed even higher. He said, “When you compare what senators and ministers are earning, I believe that the judgment is sound in law. Moreover, the Federal Government was given an opportunity to defend the case through the AGF. It is a judgment delivered on the merits and it should be implemented immediately. “It is a great day for Nigeria, a great day for democracy and a great day for the rule of law and the application of justice in Nigeria generally. When you look at the gargantuan corruption that has eaten deep into the Nigerian system, the N10m to the number one judicial officer in our land is peanut. “When an Accountant General of the Federation can alone pocket N80bn, I don’t think there should be any difficulty on the part of the government to implement this decision. The issue of neglect of the judiciary is at the core of the crisis facing Nigeria.” He also asked anyone who was not okay with the judgment to appeal it. Also reacting, another senior lawyer, Yomi Aliyu, SAN, said the judgment must be implemented, noting that the upward review would help to curb corruption and bribery in the judicial system. Lamenting the sum, which he described as ‘meagre’, Aliyu said, “How can the CJN be paid a meagre sum of N10m when a senator earns N30m a month. What is the senator even doing? Some of them are known not to go to their offices for as long as three months. So, if we want an incorruptible judiciary, nothing is too much to pay judges. “Some people approach these judges to bribe them with better sums up to N1bn. Go and see what the ICPC wrote, when they said over N3.3bn were used to bribe judges and justices in a year. “N10m for the CJN for one year would be just N1.2bn. How much are they paying the members of the National Assembly? It is not enough for judicial officers. Some judges in the High Courts are currently earning around N450,000 per month. “If somebody offers that judge N50m for a case; what do you think that judge would do? If the AGF is wise, he will not appeal.” For another SAN, Mr Lekan Ojo, the judgment must be obeyed whether the parties are okay with it or not. “This is a judgment. After the court has granted judgment, what is left is to enforce the judgment if there is no appeal or a stay of execution.