The Christian Association of Nigeria has advised Oyo State  Governor, Seyi Makinde, not to reject Pastor Afolabi Olaoye, popularly known as Ghandi as the next Soun of Ogbomoso because he is not a Muslim. The CAN chairman in Ogbomoso, Joseph Adegoke, said this in an interview with our correspondent on Monday. Ghandi, who is the Pastor of the Redeemed Christian Church of God, Jesus House, Washington, United States, was selected by kingmakers in Ogbomoso and his name had been sent to the governor for his approval, but the governor had yet to approve his selection. Some residents of the town are worried that the governor has not approved or rejected Ghandi since his name was presented to him some months back. But the Chief Imam of Ogbomoso, Sheikh Teliat Ayilara, in a video seen by our correspondent, said he told the governor during the last Ramadan that he should not just approve anybody without due consultation. The Chief Imam said he was grateful to the governor for not approving who he said “is not satisfactory to us.” The Chief Imam could not be reached but his personal assistant, who identified himself as R.K. Teliat, when contacted for the veracity of the video, told our correspondent that the Imam spoke in the video last Friday at the Ogbomoso residence of the Chief of Staff to the Oyo State Governor, Segun Ogunwuyi. The Imam in the video said, “Concerning the selection of a new Soun of Ogbomoso, I told the governor that he should not just approve anyone without due consultations. “One would think the governor did not understand me when I said that but he did.  For that reason I thank our governor for not approving what is not satisfactory to us.” The Chairman of CAN in Ogbomoso zone, Adegoke, when contacted by our correspondent, said he was surprised to hear what the Chief Imam said. He said, “I was surprised about what he said, it shouldn’t be so. The kingmakers selected him (Ghandi) after he was nominated by his ruling house. So, hearing that came as a surprise to us, we members of CAN. “That is not correct. Our appeal is to the governor to make the announcement without further delay. Since the ruling house approved his nomination, I believe the governor would have made findings about the matter.” The head of the kingmakers in Ogbomoso, Chief Sobalaje Otolorin, had earlier told The PUNCH that they had submitted a name to the governor and the people are awaiting his announcement on it. The throne became vacant following the death of the last Soun of Ogbomoso, Oba Oladunni Oyewumi, on December 12, 2021 at the age of 95 after ruling for about 48 years.