The Governing Council of University of Abuja, on Wednesday, announced the approval of the the promotion of 44 academic staff to the rank of professor and associate professor. A statement released by the Director of Public Relations of the university, Dr Habib Yakoob, which was made available to our correspondent in Abuja, noted that a total of 22 staff out of the 44 were promoted to the rank of professor. “While 22 staff were promoted to the rank of professor, 20 were promoted to the rank of associate professor. The Council also approved the promotion of two bursary staff to the rank of deputy bursar. “The promotions were considered and approved by the Council at its 92nd and 93rd Regular Meetings, which was held on Thursday 30th and Friday 31st March 2022, and Tuesday 28th and Wednesday 29th June 2022, respectively. “A breakdown of the promotion list shows that the academic staff were promoted across several disciplines. There were 7 staff promoted in veterinary medicine; 4, Law; 3, Economics; 3, Biological Sciences; 2, Guidance and Counselling, and 2,
Mathematics. “The disciplines of other promoted staff include Theatre Arts, Medical Biochemistry, Public Administration, Medicine, Engineering, Science and Environmental Education and Geography. Congratulating the staff, the Vice-Chancellor, Professor Abdul-Rasheed Na’Allah, who was quoted in the statement, noted that the promotion of the members of staff was a testimony to their continued dedication, hard work and discipline. According to Na’Allah, the University management, with the support and guidance of Council, is determined to ensure that every staff gets promotion as and when due. He said, “I must congratulate all our staff who have been promoted by Council at its 92nd and 93rd Regular Meetings. No doubt, this is a demonstration of hard work, diligence and determination on their part. These are virtues we encourage and promote among our staff at the University of Abuja. “I urge the staff to continue to work even harder because this rank is not the end of academic prowess. These positions call for more hard work, responsibility and breaking newer grounds. You must show that this is the beginning of greater things to come from you,” Na’Allah said.