A Peoples Democratic Party group, under the aegis of Umbrella Force, has faulted the choice of a former Borno State governor, Kashim Shettima, as the vice presidential candidate of the ruling All Progressives Congress. The APC presidential flag bearer, Bola Tinubu, who is a Muslim, had announced Shettima, also a Muslim, as his running mate on Sunday. In its reaction, the group noted that Tinubu has slapped Nigerians in the face with his choice of VP. This was contained in a statement titled, ‘Muslim-Muslim Ticket: Tinubu Has Slapped Nigerians In The Face Says Pdp Youth Group.’ The statement, signed by the group’s spokesperson, Tekena Alamina, was made available to The PUNCH on Tuesday. The group said, “We will not mince words on this issue. This is a slap on the face of every Nigerian — both Muslims and Christians because it sets a dangerous trend and precedence that may significantly affect the unity and peace of the country. “This selection has the stench of inconsideration, irresponsibility, division and disunity. It has total disregard for the feelings of all Nigerians. “It was done it bad faith. Are there no other competent Christians in the APC? Nigerians need to ask: ‘What is so special about Kashim Shettima? What does he bring to the table that other competent Nigerians from other religions cannot bring?’ “Right now, it is clear that Tinubu is only interested in winning. He does not care about Nigeria and Nigerians. He never has. Even President Buhari, with all his faults, saw reason in 2014 and decided to go against a Muslim-Muslim ticket. This is why Tinubu was not his running mate then. “Because people like Bukola Saraki, who were then in the APC, served as the conscience of the party and advised against it. “At this point, it is important for all lovers of Nigeria, regardless of their political party, to come out publicly and condemn to arrogance of Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu for choosing the route of a Muslim-Muslim ticket as his best course to victory.”