FRESH setbacks in the long-running war against insurgency raise posers on how the huge defence allocations of the past few years are spent. A report said allocations to the defence sector averaged $1.9 billion annually in the past 10 years, a tidy sum that should have translated to a more effective military campaign. Alas, while it is acknowledged that the military is stretched and fighting on multiple fronts, it is tragic that the Armed Forces are performing below par in the counter-insurgency campaign. It is time to probe defence spending and entrench accountability. Recurring allegations that a percentage of the military budgets ends up in the private pockets of some of the top brass, bureaucrats, contractors, and politicians have been given some credence. Several former and serving military and security personnel have been investigated for embezzling funds and some arraigned by law enforcement agencies. Many others suspected of fraud are walking free. The recent arrest of a military contractor and recovery of huge sums from his Abuja residence by the Independent Corrupt Practices and Other Related Offences Commission is the latest pointer to the pervasive corruption.In the operation, the ICPC said it recovered N175.7 million; $220,965; luxury cars, including Mercedes G-Wagon, and 2022 edition of BMW units; customised mobile phones; several designer wristwatches, including three Rolexes, and some property documents. Though a former Chief of Army Staff linked to the seizures has since denied it, the incident once again re-echoes the need for a thorough and comprehensive probe into the defence allocations and spending in the country. Nigerians are doubly afflicted; hundreds are being killed, kidnapped, raped, and maimed by terrorists and sundry criminals, and homes, worship centres, the highways and waterways are unsafe. Some communities have been overrun by Islamic terrorists, bandits/terrorists, random killers, Fulani herdsmen/militants and kidnappers. Sadly, the billions of naira and dollars appropriated over the years are often not properly accounted for, with some stolen outright. Despite the huge allocations and drawdowns, the anti-insurgency war has continued to falter. Apart from allegations of financial malfeasance, there are frequent reports of ill-motivated, ill-equipped troops, opaque procurement processes and zero accountability. The humanitarian and economic costs of this fiasco have been monumental. According to the Global Terrorism Index 2020, Nigeria incurred the largest economic impact from insurgency from 2007 to 2019 at $142 billion. Yet, Nigeria’s military budgetary allocation dwarfs the defence budgets of all other West African states put together. Niger Republic’s is less than $190 million; Chad, $24 million; Benin Republic, $116 million and Cameroon at $244 million. The Centre for Democracy and Development estimates that a whopping $15 billion has been squandered through fraudulent arms procurement deals in the last 20 years. It alleged that “the political and security elite monetised the conflicts and the resultant humanitarian crises.” Meanwhile, the GTI ranked Nigeria as the world’s third most terrorism-prone country with no improvement since 2017. Lack of accountability has evolved into a bureaucratic web where money voted to fight terrorists and bandits is allegedly being filched by insiders and contractors. Multiple investigations should be launched to instil accountability, expose the thieves, and facilitate the recovery of stolen assets. Weapons procurement is opaque and this provides a cover for inflation of contract costs, and purchase of obsolete items.  A paper published on the ReserachGate platform claimed that the annual budgetary allocations to the Army, Navy and Air Force were inflated using different expenditure headings 2014 through 2018. Troops are reportedly denied modern weapons and basic welfare. These allegations deserve thorough investigation. The Speaker, House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila, complained last year that the expenditure on military hardware and training in the previous five years hovered between just nine and 11 per cent of the total budgetary allocation to the Armed Forces. About 91 per cent is spent on overheads, salaries, and welfare. An alert by the National Security Adviser, Babagana Monguno, in March 2021 on the disappearance of the arms procurement funds resonates. He told the BBC Hausa Service, “The funds are nowhere to be found and the weapons have not been seen, and the newly appointed service chiefs have declared that they have not seen the weapons.” His hint that a probe was underway has not manifested 17 months after, and the culprits uncovered. A former General Officer Commanding, 8 Division, a major-general, was exposed for authorising the transportation of N400 million cash by road from Sokoto to Abuja. The government should initiate investigations by the anti-graft agencies, and simultaneously, forensic, and materials audits. All monies released should be accounted for. In 2018, the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), approved the release of $1billion from the Excess Crude Account for the military. Between 2020 and 2021, Nigeria reportedly raised its military spending by 56 percent to reach $4.5 billion.The service-wide vote is regularly raided to fund the military. Disappointingly, Nigerians have not seen the fruits of these drawdowns. The National Assembly has failed in its responsibility to demand accountability. Each chamber should conduct probes into specific funding heads. The NASS should stop hastily approving requests for funds without undertaking due diligence and insisting on accounting for previous appropriation. In other climes, accountability, monitoring and evaluation and transparency in procurement rank high in administering the defence sector. In 2017, a three-star general, Ronald Lewis, was demoted by two rungs by the United States authorities for using a government credit card to pay for bills at strip clubs in Italy and South Korea. In 2015, China sentenced a three-star general, Gu Junshan, to death for embezzling military funds. Transparency and accountability should be instilled in military budgeting and procurement processes in Nigeria too. Effective oversight by the Ministry of Finance and the Budget Office, as well as the NASS must be institutionalised. The military should ensure that funds are used effectively, while showing corrupt and incompetent officers the door, prosecuting them and recovering all stolen monies.