The Federal Government has urged stakeholders in the health sector to work toward well-coordinated, effective, and efficient emergency medical services. The FG said this during the stakeholders’ meeting organised by the National Emergency Medical Service and Ambulance System and the National Emergency Medical Treatment Committee, in Kano State. The Federal Ministry of Health signed a Memorandum of Understanding with the private sector and other stakeholders for the operationalisation of NEMSAS. In a statement signed by the Deputy Director, Media and Public Relations, Federal Ministry of Health, Ahmadu Chindaya, and made available to our correspondent, the FG said the stakeholders’ meeting was part of the collective efforts put in place by the ministry of health to ensure the smooth take-off of NEMSAS and the proposed national launch/roll out of the programme by President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), at a later date. “So far, six states have shown their readiness and interest to kick-start the programme in their respective states, namely, Yobe, Kano, Rivers, Sokoto, Ekiti, and Anambra states. “The two-day stakeholders meeting which was approved by the Minister of Health, Osagie Ehanire, and supported by the World Health Organisation, was coordinated by the National Programme Manager, NEMSAS, Saidu Dambulwa,” the statement read in part The statement noted that the meeting was attended by the representative of the Honourable Commissioner for Health, Kano State, Nasir Kabo, who is also the Director-General, Hospital Management Board, Kano State; the Chief Medical Director, Lagos University Teaching Hospital, Lagos, Prof. Chris Bode; the Chairman, Committee of Medical Directors/Chief Medical Directors, Federal Tertiary Hospitals, represented by Dr. Suleiman Bello; among others. “Dr. Dambulwa, the National Programme Manager, NEMSAS, presented the lead paper during the meeting. “According to him, missing links exist at all levels of tertiary, secondary, and primary levels of the Nigerian health sector under the emergency health cases. When an emergency occurs, transporting the victim to the nearby health facility as well as who pays the medical bill always constitutes the missing links. “When the NEMTC and NEMSAS are fully operationalised, not only the missing link will be taken care of, but health care delivery in Nigeria will become more affordable,” it added.