A group, Coalition of INEC Accredited Civil Society Election Observers, on Monday said the outcome of the last Saturday’s Osun state governorship election should be accepted by all as a true reflection of the will of the people. The National Coordinator of the group, Mr. Fidelis Nweke, disclosed this while briefing newsmen on the findings of observers that monitored the election. According to him, the poll met the required international standard for credible democratic election. He said, “The exercise met the required international standard for credible democratic election. The result should therefore be accepted by all as a true reflection of the will of the people of Osun State. “Since INEC has announced a clear winner of the election, the rest of the candidates should see themselves as co-winners and tow the path of peace by congratulating the clear winner for the good and progress of the State, because Osun state remains a home for all of its citizens and the government that will emerge from the election should be government for all the people of the State.” Similarly, another two observer groups, Pan African Women Projects and Intercontinental Leadership Initiative have said there were less incidents of vote-buying during Osun poll, compared to the June 18 Ekiti State governorship election. Eno Udensi, who spoke on behalf of PAWP, said, “The Bimodal Voter Accreditation System used at this election performed better than previous election in Ekiti. “Many polling units that had more voters had more than two BIVAS which made accreditation faster. Also, the vote buying in Osun was not as unhealthy as that of Ekiti where many persons were trading at the polling units environment.” Giving his own assessment of the poll, Stafford Bisong who is the Lead Trustee of Intercontinental Leadership Initiative, said Osun electorate exhibited a high level of discipline and commitment to the sustenance of credible electoral process during the poll. “The good people of Osun State came all out to exercise their franchise having rekindled their minds to the importance of voting and the fact election results are always decided by a select few who make up their minds on the fact that voting is worth the effort,” he concluded.