Furniture manufacturing firm, Lifemate has said that it is determined to boost the living conditions of the Nigerian people by giving back to its distributors and franchisee friends. The company stated this during the Lifemate Dealers conference held in Ogun State. The dealers’ conference featured an interaction with the company’s distributors while the firm also unveiled some of its new products in the market. Speaking at the conference, the company’s Wholesale Supervisor, Mark Otobo, thanked the dealers for partnering and identifying with the vision of the company. Otobo said, “The quality, durability, precaution measures and the ever improving brand of our  products that we are known for over the years has made Lifemate the leading furniture company globally. Our yearly products promo and exhibition are of maximum rewards to all our customers because of the massive discounts, as low as 10 per cent of products which enable them to make extra profit.” On his part, the company’s Deputy-Director, Project, Howard Gao, said the dealer’s conference was germane as it brought together the company and its partners to discuss the development of the company as it announces distribution and franchisees model in order to create opportunities for common development partners. He said, “The company has been making unrelenting efforts to improve the living conditions of the Nigerian people, developing and prospering together with the Nigerian people and winning the support and trust of the people. Thanks to the love of people from all walks of life in Nigeria, we have achieved these great achievements.” In the same vein, the company’s Wholesales Department Manager, Anas Khuwias, said the manufacturing process employed by the firm places a premium on quality and thoroughness. Khuwias said, “In the production of outdoor products, the wrought iron materials go through the pickling process to remove oil and rust, and then dry and apply anti-rust paint, so that the wrought iron parts can be guaranteed not to rust for a long time.” The dealer’s conference also featured a raffle draw which provided dealers and customers a chance to win prizes.