Vice President Yemi Osinbajo and ex-Osun State Governor, Rauf Aregbesola, were noticeably absent at a mega rally urganised for the re-election of the state governor, Adegboyega Oyetola, in Osogbo on Tuesday. The mega rally committee, in a statement on Monday by its spokesperson, Funke Egbemode, had listed Osinbajo as one of the guests expected at the rally. But Aregbesola, who is the Minister of Interior, was not listed. Some of the governors in attendance included Rotimi Akeredolu of Ondo; Kayode Fayemi of Ekiti; Atiku Bagudu of Kebbi; Nasir el-Rufai of Kaduna, Abdulrahaman Abudulrasak of Kwara; Hope Uzodimma of Imo; Abdullahi Ganduje of Kano; Babajide Sanwo-Olu of Lagos; and Prof. Babagana Zulum of Borno. Also in attendance were a former APC national chairman, Adams Oshiomhole; APC presidential candidate, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu; and his running mate, Kashim Shettima respectively. When asked why his principal did not attend the rally, the media adviser to the Interior Minister, Mr Sola Fasure, said Aregbesola was not invited for the event. Fasure, who also said Aregbesola was not a member of the APC Campaign Council for Osun poll, further noted that the minister was attending an official event in Lagos on Tuesday. Speaking at the rally, APC National Chairman, Abdullahi Adamu, declared that the party is not leaving anything to chance with Osun election. Also speaking, the Senate President, Senator Ahmad Lawan, while presenting the APC flag to Oyetola, lauded the governor’s efficiency in managing the state’s meagre resources, calling on citizens to look beyond political sentiments in their choice of who to elect, and to vote massively for Oyetola. In his remarks, Tinubu, who represented the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.,) urged the electorate to come out in large number and vote for Oyetola for continuity of good governance in Osun State. He said, “Go out with your PVCs and vote massively for APC and Governor Oyetola on Saturday. Think about your children and vote for Oyetola for a better future for them. “You must all go out in large crowd on Saturday to re-elect Governor Oyetola. Don’t be deceived by PDP and other mushrooms parties. We must vote and defeat them.” Oyetola urged the people, especially workers, to shun political traducers who are peddling falsehood that his administration will renege in its commitment to their welfare if re-elected, saying he remains strongly committed to their welfare.