The Peoples Democratic Party Governors Forum has extended its congratulatory messages to the Governor-elect of Osun State, Senator Ademola Adeleke. Adeleke, who contested on the platform of the PDP was, on Sunday morning, declared the winner of the governorship election by the Independent National Electoral Commission after defeating the candidate of the All Progressives Congress, and the incumbent governor, Adegboyega Oyetola. According to the statement signed by the Chairman of the Forum, who is also the Governor of Sokoto State, Aminu Tambuwal, the Forum declared the victory as the wish of the electorate in the state. “That Osun people reposed their trust and confidence in Senator Ademola Adeleke, the Governor-elect of Osun, is because they could see his heart, which is full of love and concern for the wellbeing of his people. “This victory is as a result of the sagacity, hard work, teamwork, skillful campaigns, efficient resource allocation, openness and humility exhibited by the Governor-elect. “He concentrated on issues that mattered most to the Osun people and they responded in kind, bestowing on him and the PDP an earth-shaking victory of historic proportions. “This victory is a lesson for all. It shows that everyone matters in politics, particularly the electorate. It also confirms the famous dictum that ‘God’s time is the best.’ “We must remain vigilant and anticipate all the antics the dying APC will come up with. But be rest assured that we are all with you in this great effort to reset the trajectory and story of Nigeria positively. “The light has shone on Osun State in July. It is time for the light to shine on Nigeria again through the instrumentality of the PDP, come February, 2023.” The statement further said, “We must also congratulate the PDP family led by the Chairman, Dr. Iyorchia Ayu and his team, who ensured a credible primary. The PDP presidential and vice-presidential candidates must be applauded for their leadership role. “Perhaps, a gold medal should be reserved for Sen. Douye Diri, the Bayelsa State Governor, who served as Chairman of the National Campaign Council and other PDP governors and stalwarts who played various roles that culminated in this great outcome. “We extend our congratulations also to INEC, the election Management body, the security agencies, election observers and monitors, the media and most importantly, the people of Osun State, who not only voted, but ensured that their votes counted. “However, when all is said and done, it is time for the APC to go. It is time to rid Nigeria of the disaster called the APC. The suffering of the ordinary Nigerian has reached a crescendo, a breaking point. The APC should just pack and go, as the PDP, Atiku Abubakar/Ifeanyi Okowa are coming to rescue and rebuild Nigeria. “We welcome you to the PDP Governors Forum,” he added.