The Indigenous People of Biafra has accused the Department of State Services of shielding its leader, Nnamdi Kanu, from visitors while keeping him in solitary confinement. The group expressed its displeasure over what it described as deliberate, permanent and insidious psychological torture against Kanu in the DSS custody. IPOB lamented that the action of the security agencies contravened International Human Rights laws and principles, as they have continued to deny Kanu access to visitors on Mondays and Thursdays, as directed by the court. The secessionist group in a statement released on Saturday, titled ‘Mazi Nnamdi Kanu no longer allowed to stay approved time with his visitors by DSS’, claimed that the DSS operatives have continued to flout and violate the existing court orders strictly given by Justice Binta Nyako concerning the welfare of the IPOB leader. The statement read in part, “We the global movement and family of IPOB wish to reiterate our displeasure once again over the deliberate, permanent and insidious psychological torture being committed against our leader Mazi Nnamdi Kanu in contravention of UNHRC and all other International Human Rights laws and principles in DSS confinement and torture facilities. “There abounds obvious and utter disregard by the DSS on the existing laws and thereby, consistently flouting the court ruling that Mazi Nnamdi Kanu deserves an interface with fellow human. “Solitary confinement is torture under the United Nations Law and Justice Nyanko made a court order that Kanu should be visited twice a week, Mondays and Thursdays by his lawyers, family members and visitors of his choice.” “We want to make it known to all and sundry that our leader is now being allowed to see his visitors for only 30 minutes in contravention of the competent court order that approved two hours per visit by his lawyers and family members.” The group, therefore, reminded the DSS of their required obligations in handling all matters associated with Kanu so as to minimise unforeseen circumstantial consequences should anything goes wrong. It called the International Community, Amnesty International, embassies, governments, Intersociety and NGOs, including all reputable human rights organisations to monitor the gross violation of all known fundamental human rights of the IPOB leader.