The former Senator representing Rivers South-East, Magnus Abe, has announced his resignation from the All Progressives Congress. This is as the party leadership in the state said reports alleging that a former Minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi, has left the party were false, saying he remains a loyal member of the ruling party. In a statement signed by his spokesman, Parry Benson, on Wednesday, however, Abe pledged his support for the presidential bid of Asiwaju Bola Tinubu. The former senator stated that he left the party in the state to pursue his political fortunes elsewhere, though he did not mention his destination, even as he said a letter circulating online that he resigned did not originate from him. The statement quoted Abe as saying, “I have since left the APC in Rivers State but the letter circulating round is not from me. I am still part of Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu’s family and have no issue with him whatsoever. “Yesterday, there were some funny letters circulating on the internet that I had resigned from the APC because Asiwaju refused to intervene in the politics of Rivers state. That is ridiculous. All politics is local. I have no interest whatsoever in the APC in Rivers state. “When people talk about resignation, how do I resign from the party when I don’t even know who the ward chairman is? Meanwhile, at a news briefing in Port-Harcourt on Wednesday, the State Publicity Secretary of the APC, Chris Finebone, described Amaechi’s purported resignation as fake news intended to smear his image. Finebone said, “Let me use this opportunity to raise the alarm that just yesterday, evil people launched fake news concerning our leader, Rotimi Amaechi, purporting that he has resigned from the APC. “He remains a loyal member of the APC and he has reiterated this at every opportunity and that he would work to ensure the party resoundingly wins the 2023 elections.” Finebone said Abe’s resignation from the party was long expected. He said, “Rivers APC can now heave a sigh of relief from the sustained destabilising onslaught by Senator Abe. We wish him well as he joins the SDP. We pray that he takes everything he exhibited in APC, particularly his nuisance value, to his new party so that the world will see him for who he truly is. “We make bold to state without an iota of doubt that Senator Abe and his supporters have, by their actions and utterances, long ceased to be functional members of the APC.” On the recent spate of resignations by members of the party loyal to Amaechi, he said, “they fall into two categories: those who added value, we wish them well, but to the others, we say good riddance.” 