The Managing Director, Unified Payment Service Limited, Agada Apochi, has been inaugurated as the new President of the Lagos Business School Alumni Association. Apochi takes over the leadership mantle of the association following the expiration of the tenure of Mr Frank Aigbogun, Publisher of BusinessDay Newspapers, who led the body for two years. He was inaugurated alongside other executives at a handover ceremony recently held at Oriental Hotel, Lagos. Prior to this new role, Agada had been the Vice-President of the association, in which he contributed his quota towards improving the institution. Speaking at the handover ceremony, the Dean, Lagos Business School, Prof Chris Ogbechie, commended the association for the enormous support and contribution extended to the institution and the larger society. Ogbechie, who expressed appreciation to the Frank Aigbogun-led executive, explained that despite the challenge occasioned by the COVID-19 pandemic in 2020, the association made a tremendous impact on the institution and the communities around it. “I can say, without any equivocation that, in the last two years, communities around our institution, Lagos Business School, benefited more from the alumni association. “I must say that this outgoing exco made us proud. Be that as it may, I want to state that we have a lot to teach our larger society,” he said. Also speaking, Apochi thanked the outgoing members of the executive for the job well done, saying that it was evident in the number of impactful projects undertaken by the team. Speaking on his four-point agenda for the association, Apochi stated that within the next two years, his administration would establish two foreign chapters and ensure the continuation of corporate social responsibility activities carried out by the last administration, among other objectives. “As a team, we require some networking to be successful at what we do. We have a responsibility that we must not fail on. Our job is already cut out for us. We would do anything to improve