The Revenue Mobilisation Allocation and Fiscal Commission on Monday said it would respond next week to the judgment of the Abuja Division of the National Industrial Court of Nigeria which ordered a review of salaries of judicial officials in the country. The PUNCH had reported that the NICN gave the order while delivering judgment in a suit filed against the Federal Government by Chief Sebastine Hon (SAN). Justice Osatohanmen Obaseki-Osaghae had, in the judgment delivered on Friday, ordered the Federal Government to put machinery in place for the immediate review of salaries and allowances of the judicial officers in the country. The judge had ordered the Federal Government to commence a monthly payment of N10 million to the Chief Justice of Nigeria, N9 million to other Justices of the Supreme Court and N9 million for President of Court of Appeal. Also, other Justices of the Appellate Court would get N8 million; Chief Judges of both Federal and States High Courts (N8 million), while Judges of the Federal and States High Courts would receive N7 million. When contacted on the matter, the spokesperson of RMAFC, Chris Nwachukwu, told The PUNCH that the commission would react to the demand for the pay rise for judges by next week. Nwachukwu said, “I don’t want to talk much about this because we will make our statement on it next week. People have been calling about it. I have done the statement; it is just for approval before we will release it. “So have patience, there is no need to start giving it out in piecemeal. When I issue the press release, then you can pick the information you seek from there.” Also, when contacted on Monday, Hon told The PUNCH that “they were all served (the processes). The Revenue Mobilisation Allocation and Fiscal Commission did not come to court. They did not file any defence.” Asked when he believed the implementation of the judgment would take place and whether the AGF has filed an appeal, the lawyer said, “He has not appealed. The AGF opposed the suit. The National Assembly also opposed, just by way of objection in my local standard. “The AGF filed a full defence. We don’t know when they will appeal. We are not afraid of appeal. We are seeking to enforce the judgment. “The RMAFC was asked to enforce it (the judgment) forthwith and forthwith is more immediate than immediately in legal terms. “We cannot exercise any fear. We went to court and we also appreciated that the government maybe headstrong in terms of unwillingness to do anything.” Azinge speaks Meanwhile, a Senior Advocate of Nigeria and former Director-General of the Nigerian Institute of Advanced Legal Studies, Prof. Epiphany Azinge, on Monday called on the Federal Government to comply with the judgment. Azinge spoke with journalists in Abuja while unveiling activities to mark the 42nd reunion and anniversary of the Class of 1980 of the Nigeria Law School. He said, “The judgment is to give Salaries and Wages Commission the tone for further engagement and negotiation. So, it may not end up being N10 million per month as salary for the CJN. It may come down to an extent, but again, the important thing is that the judicial pronouncement has tone for further negotiations and further engagement. “But, let it be on record that the judiciary deserves the best, because you cannot be accusing judges of corruption and at the end of the day you are still starving them of funds.