The Federal Ministry of Education has said the newly established Federal University of Health Sciences, Ila-Orangun, Osun State, will help to reduce the amount of money Nigerians spend on medical tourism abroad. Officials of the ministry said this when the Federal Government’s technical team visited the university to assess its level of preparedness for take-off. The Director, University Education, Federal Ministry of Education, who is also the leader of the team, Mrs. Rakiya Ilyasu, said the newly established Federal University of Health Sciences would reduce expedite the country’s quest to reduce medical tourism. Ilyasu spoke shortly after her technical team was received by the varsity’s Pioneer Management Team headed by the Vice-Chancellor, Prof. Akeem Lasisi; and the Chairman, FUHES Advisory Committee, Prof. Tunde Ajiboye. She said, “I express satisfaction with all the inspected facilities at the temporary and permanent sites. The essence of this visit to Ila-Orangun was to evaluate the level of preparation for the successful take-off of the university. “The decision of the Federal Government to establish the new university is a noble intent; to reduce medical tourism and lay a solid foundation for building national preparedness and resilience in anticipation of future challenges in the health sector. “I thank Chief (Dr) Bisi Akande and Governor Adegboyega Oyetola for the warm reception I and my team received a day earlier and all the support received from the day of the announcement of the university.” Other members of the team included Mr. Charles Owolabi from the Federal Ministry of Education, Abuja; and the trio of Mr.Ashafa Ladan, Abraham Chundusu and Mallam Kabir Abdullahi from the National Universities Commission, Abuja. Also present at the inspection exercise were Osun State’s Commissioner for Culture and Tourism, Dr Obawale Adebisi; and the chairmen of Ila Local Government and Ila Central Local Council Development Area, Dr Olumide Babatunde, and Ademola Kolawole, among others. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com