Speaker of Ebonyi State House of Assembly and governorship aspirant in 2023 on the platform of All Progressives Congress, Francis Nwifuru, has presented his nomination and expression of interest forms to the traditional rulers of the state. Nwifuru, who was received by the monarchs at the Traditional Rulers’ Office, Onwe Road, Abakaliki on Monday, told them that he was in the race following his endorsement by his Izzi people and the entire stakeholders of the state. Nwifuru, a two-term Speaker of the Assembly, pledged to embark on construction of rural roads to link the entire communities to the state capital, if elected governor. He further promised to ensure improved workers welfare, and empowerment of unemployed youths in the state, even as he noted that his administration would consolidate on the achievements of Governor David Umahi. He also pledged to restore peace in all the communities having communal crises. He said, “I am here to present to you our nomination forms to contest next year’s general election. We never met anybody for consultation, but it was you, the traditional rulers, my Izzi people, and the entire people that told us to contest for the 2023 governorship election. “When the rltraditional rulers from the Izzi clan and stakeholders asked me to run for the election, tears dropped from my eyes because I am too young, but they said I am the one that they want. “I want to assure you people that I will not disappoint the state. “We are going to tackle rural-urban migration by opening roads, providing light, water and other amenities that make life meaningful in the communities. We will build on the legacies of the present Governor, David Umahi who has transformed the state. We will consolidate on his achievements.” He regretted that traditional rulers were not respected in Igbo land as seen in Hausa and Fulanis where their Emirs are being worshipped like God and called on the Igbo to respect traditional institutions. In his remarks, the Chairman, South-East Traditional Rulers Council and Chairman of the State Traditional Rulers Council, HRH Charles Mkpuma, assured Nwifuru of their support. Mkpuma expressed optimism that Nwifuru would do well and even surpass the present Governor of the state, David Umahi “We have no doubt about your capacity, we know you very well. You will perform more than your master”, he said. The Traditional Rulers also gave Nwifuru a royal blessing ahead of the 2023 governorship election. Recall that Governor David Umahi had openly endorsed Nwifuru as his successor. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com