Ondo North lawmaker and the Deputy Majority Leader of the Senate, Senator Ajayi Boroffice, talks to ENIOLA AKINKUOTU about his presidential ambition and other salient issues You recently purchased the N100m presidential form of the All Progressives Congress. Why exactly do you want to be President of Nigeria? I am a patriot and I believe I have a lot to contribute to the development of Nigeria. I have been around for some time. I was in academia, bureaucracy and now in the legislature. By virtue of my career, I have seen a lot, particularly in the Senate. I know a bit about the problems confronting our development. I have seen about three or four Presidents make their own contribution during my time at the Senate and I see President Muhammadu Buhari taking a new approach which is attacking the roots rather than the symptoms and I am impressed by his achievements especially in the area of infrastructure. And I feel that if I become the President of Nigeria, I will be able to build on his legacy. So, I have put myself forward because I believe I can contribute to the development of this country. Of the aspirants in the APC, you are believed to be the oldest. Why not leave the stage for the youths? I don’t think I am the oldest. Also, age is just statistics. As a scientist, I know you have what is called a calendar age and the biological age. You may be 70 by your calendar age but your biological age may be 60. Also, you could be 60 by your calendar age but 70 by your biological age. Yes, I am 73 but I believe I still have the intellect and the capability of somebody who is between 65 and 70. In any case, look at President Biden of the United States. He is one of the most powerful presidents in the world. He is 78. And there are many examples even in Asia where a man was elected President at the age of 80. There is something you must know. Age brings a lot of wisdom and experience which are difficult to come by. During my declaration, I said I would ensure that 50 per cent of my cabinet would consist of youths. My duty will be to provide leadership to guide them and harness their resources and use their zeal to unlock the wealth of this country. So, I don’t think age is an issue. I don’t look like an old man that has lost his senses. But what is the age of the ideas you want to bring into leadership? This is a broad question. Nigeria has many problems. We have in the economy, security, power and social inclusion. These are the core areas. So, when you talk of the idea, I think it is to revolutionise these areas and tackle Nigeria’s problem. Nigerians deserve a better life. The idea is that Nigerians should be proud of their country. For instance, in my declaration speech, I spoke about energy which is a central issue. It is essential to economic growth. Once we can tackle this problem, it will have a domino effect on all other areas whether security or infrastructure. We also have to carry the people along because of the people we need to make sacrifices. We have one of the largest reserves of gas in the world but we have not been able to extract, process and utilise it. Today, Russia’s economy depends on gas. We should be supplying West Africa and Central Africa gas and make a lot of money. My idea is to provide the needed leadership for reforms. We have started with the Petroleum Industry Act and with the unbundling of the NNPC. Also, we will ensure equitable pricing in the energy sector so that the poor and the rich do not pay the same price. The poor will pay less while the rich will be made to pay more. The excess that the rich pay will be used in subsidising the poor. It may seem the APC presidential primaries will go to the highest bidder going by the decision of the party to fix the cost of its Presidential form at N100m. Can you match aspirants like Bola Tinubu, Rotimi Amaechi and sitting governors contesting? Well, buying the form will require money but selecting the flag bearer of the party will not be about money. I believe many factors will be taken into consideration. It is not good to leave the race for moneybags. If we leave politics to moneybags, we will not be helping the country. I have ideas which I believe can help the nation. I don’t have the money but I believe those in the leadership of the party will find ways of sieving out from a large number of aspirants one that will benefit the country because it is not just about money. Let us be judged by our antecedents. Go to Ondo North senatorial district to see what I have done with the little money at our disposal. Will you leave the APC if you lose the primary? Why will I leave? I will remain in the APC  Some presidential aspirants  have also bought senatorial forms as a plan b. Have you also purchased a senatorial form? I am guided by my Christian principle that a double minded person is not likely to achieve much. I am not double minded. I am focused on the presidential race. So, I am not gambling. If I win, praise God. If I lose, so be it. You are from Ondo North senatorial district, the same zone where Governor Rotimi Akeredolu is from. Do you have his support? Well, when I wanted to buy my form. Even though he didn’t pick my call, I called his deputy and I spoke to him. I called the chairman of the party and none of them was opposed to my picking up the presidential form. I assume that they should be happy with my victory. Can you imagine Ondo being left out in the whole of the South-West? So, I am standing in for Ondo State and I think everyone in Ondo State should be happy that I have taken up this challenge to stand in for Ondo State. Did you sign part 18 of the APC Presidential form which talks about voluntary withdrawal? That aspect was included in the form in error. We were told at the point of submission of the form that we should cross it out. Are you open to consensus? Yes, if it will be in the interest of the party. Don’t forget that as a member of this Senate, we recommended direct primaries but the President sent it back that we should also consider indirect and consensus. So, as a member of the Senate, I think whatever the party decides is acceptable to me because as a member of the Senate, I participated in the debate and the passage of the bill. But Bola Tinubu’s camp has insisted on a democratic process and has rejected consensus outright because of the danger of imposition Again, this is an area I will not want to comment on. But once you have something in the Electoral Act, it is the leadership that will decide. Don’t forget that the electoral law is superior to the APC constitution. It is the leadership of the party that will decide based on some considerations. I see what is happening in some states. Congresses are supposed to be holding across the states to elect delegates but I doubt the congresses are being conducted. So, the product of whatever they bring from the state, can we rely on them? So, it depends on the circumstances. It is good for our leader to say he doesn’t want consensus and that he prefers direct or indirect. I may say I prefer consensus and direct. Direct means you are giving the party back to the people but if we are not careful, this could lead to explosion or implosion. It will be chaotic. We cannot organise an ordinary congress let alone a general election. So, I will say let us leave it to the leadership of the party to decide. We did it at the convention, everything went well. In fact the PDP is thinking of a consensus. This means it has its advantages.  There was a meeting of South-West APC leaders convened in Lagos by Chief Bisi Akande three weeks ago which was attended by all major Presidential aspirants. Why were you not at the meeting and do you agree with the resolution at the meeting that the South-West must produce the next President? I am a Yoruba man and a patriotic Nigerian. I love the decision taken at that meeting and I may even benefit from it so why should I oppose it?  I couldn’t attend it for some reason. At the time the invitation was sent by the Minister of Trade and Investment, Niyi Adebayo, it was too late for me to make any arrangements. You know I don’t have a jet. I don’t own a jet like many of them so it was too late for me to travel to Lagos to attend the meeting. I read the communiqué after the meeting which was fair. They didn’t say anyone should step down for anyone. They only said we should not overheat the polity because the leadership of the party could give the Presidency to another zone if we cannot agree amongst ourselves. The assumption of that meeting is that the Presidency is coming to the South-West. Recently, the National Assembly amended the Electoral Act to allow statutory delegates vote at primaries. Do you fear that the President will not sign it? Also, do you feel you think the consequences will be if the bill isn’t signed? I wasn’t in the chambers when the decision was taken but I learnt it was an omission. This provision was in the previous bill but somehow it was omitted. So, what was done was to provide this additional provision. I am not in a position to say if the President will sign it or not. The President will get legal advice on this issue. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com