The Arewa Consultative Youths Movement has dismissed the call for resignation or sacking of the Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria, Dr Godwin Emefiele, over his membership of the All Progressives Congress and presidential ambition in 2023. Instead, the ACYM passed a vote of confidence on Emefiele, saying the office of the CBN governor is not vacant. There were online reports earlier in the week that the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), had sacked Emefiele, which the Presidency and the CBN had since dismissed. Buhari had ordered government officials, including members of his cabinet who are running for various elective public offices in the 2023 general elections to tender their resignation. While supporters had obtained Presidential Nomination and Declaration of Interest Forms of the APC for Emefiele, the party had said the CBN failed to submit a filled copy of the forms. President of the ACYM, Kabiru Yusuf, in a statement issued on Thursday, noted that Emefiele and his team in the CBN had been performing creditably well and they should not be stampeded out of office for any reason. The statement was titled ‘Arewa Youths Pass Vote of Confidence on CBN Gov and Buhari…Says no Vacancy for Those Eyeing the Nation’s Treasury and to Decimate Buhari Agenda.’ In the statement, Yusuf urged those seeking Emefiele’s removal “so that they can put their cronies in the position to access the nation’s treasury” to have a rethink. The statement partly read, “We, Arewa youths, have resolved to pass a vote of confidence on President Buhari and Dr Emefiele over the manner they have been handling the nation’s economy. “We are not unmindful of the efforts of some unscrupulous persons to pile pressure on the President to sack Emefiele for their own selfish reasons. “Since we know that their plan is not nationalistic but selfish and personal, we are by this medium telling them that there is no vacancy in the CBN. They should learn to live with this basic fact.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com