Crisis has rocked the Peoples Democratic Party in the Akoko North East Local Government Area as two delegates have emerged from two factions for the forthcoming national convention of the party. Sources said the two delegates, Bode Obanla and Babatunde Obaude, emerged as factional national delegates of the party instead of one delegate from one LG. The factional lists were said to have been submitted to the state Chairman of the party, Fatai Adams, for transmission to the national secretariat of the party in Abuja. However, the Chairman of the party in the local government, Giwa Kareem, disowned Obanla as a delegate from the local government, saying Obanla was not voted for by the members. In a letter, sent to the party chairman, and made available to our correspondent on Thursday, Kareem said the party leadership at the local government had elected Oladele as the sole delegate of the party and any other person masquerading as such was an impersonator. The letter reads, “We, the leaders of Akoko North East Local Government hereby appreciate the party and party leaders at the state level and national level for the peaceful resolution of allowing us to select our National Delegate for the forthcoming National Congress. “We appreciate all our party members who peacefully came out en mass to endorse the only selected candidate for this position despite the rain on the 10th day of May 2022 and wish to discountenance the rumour that we selected two candidates for the position of a national delegate. “Architect Tunde Obaude was the selected and affirmed candidate. Mr Bode Obanla was never selected for the position at all. He, however, selected himself but did not show up at all during the affirmation exercise at the party secretariat at Ikare. “We also urged the state secretariat to discountenance the fake result submitted by the said Bode Obanla as it is null and void since such exercise was not carried out in our secretariat. “We sincerely pray that at a time like this when it is our prayer to win all elections at all levels, may we not be distracted by frivolities. We, the leader of Akoko North East wish the party successful congress and victory over all elections ahead of us.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com