Feyenoord forward Cyriel Dessers and Everton’s Alex Iwobi have both staged a return to the Super Eagles squad for the international friendly games against Mexico and Ecuador in the US, after some fine displays in their respected leagues in Europe. Eagles’ assistant coach, Salisu Yusuf, on Tuesday released a list of 30 players with Dessers and Iwobi making the headlines following their impressive form ahead of the games. The list also include captain Ahmed Musa, Moses Simon, Joe Aribo and Emmanuel Dennis. Dessers was invited for the two friendlies against Algeria and Tunisia in 2020 in Austria, but ended up appearing only against the former. The Feyenoord striker was thereafter overlooked by former coaches Gernot Rohr and Austin Eguavoen. The 27-year-old has been in fine form this season and is currently the top scorer in the maiden UEFA Europa Conference League with 10 goals from 12 games. He has scored a total of 20 goals across all competitions this season, a feat that has earned him a recall to the national team. Also, Iwobi returns after missing the World Cup play-offs against Ghana in March, following a straight red at the Africa Cup of Nations in Cameroon. The 26-year-old has been in fine form for struggling Everton in recent weeks and has started all of the club’s nine last games, playing in several positions. Meanwhile, notable absentees from the squad are Victor Osimhen, Kelechi Iheanacho and Odion Ighalo. Also, Yusuf handed invitations to eight players from the Nigeria Professional Football League, including the league’s two goals to scorers Ishaq Rafiu (Rivers United) and Victor Mbaoma (Enyimba). Other NPFL players invited are goalkeepers Adewale Adeyinka (Akwa United), Ojo Olorunleke (Enyimba); defenders Isa Ali (Remo Stars), İbrahim Buhari (Plateau United); midfielders Chiamaka Madu (Rivers United) and Babatunde Nosiru (Kwara United). The friendly will serve as preparations for the 2023 Africa Cup of Nations qualifier against Sierra Leone at the Moshood Abiola National Stadium in Abuja June 9. The three-time African champions wclash with CONCACAF powerhouse Mexico at the AT & T Stadium in Dallas, State of Texas May 28, before flying to New Jersey to tackle Ecuador at the Red Bull Arena in Harrison on June 2. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com