Background I grew up in Enugu. My father used to buy for my siblings and I a book at the beginning of every week when I started learning to read at the age of six. When I turned 11 years old, I had read hundreds of books. Most of them were biographies of great people as well as encyclopedias. I have three siblings. Education I studied Dentistry at the University of Ibadan. Inspiration I have always loved music. Music runs in my family because my grandmother used to sing and dance. Also, my father’s brothers were drummers for the king in my village. When there was a coronation in my town then, my uncles would be the ones to drum. My father is also a poet who has written lots of poems. Music My kind of music is afro-rap. It is a blend of African incantations which stems from poetry and current mainstream music. Challenges Money has been the biggest challenge for me to penetrate the industry. Another challenge I had was that I started music properly as a graduate, and I needed to learn more about rap. Career My boldest step was starting my career as a dentist. Some people say because I am a doctor, my life is already planned out. However, I had to shut out all that noise and do what I had always wanted to do. I have been making progress and I am grateful that I made that step. I make my own money, which I use to pay for studio sessions, promotion and other things in my music career. Parents My parents were not against my decision to become a rapper. They felt since I had graduated (from the university) and I had done something they were proud of (I could go ahead). However, they think music is a hobby for me and not a profession. They don’t know I have taken it as a serious business. An aunt once complained to my mum that I was dancing on Instagram. My father, who knew that I was into music, was angry because she (aunt) did not complain to me (directly). He said if I do music, I should send it to a better set of people who would appreciate it. Role models My role model is anyone who works really hard. I like Tiwa Savage because she is hard-working. I like Rihanna because she has proven that one can be different things. I also like Jay-Z for the same reasons. I like Davido for his generosity; I admire Wizkid for his intellect, and I like Kanye West for his outspokenness and futuristic ideas. Achievements My music has been streamed online by up to 50,000 people and that fetches me some money. Harassment I have not faced sexual harassment in the industry. Some people usually ask me to hang out with them, and I don’t think that is harassment. Motivation I am motivated by the fact that one only has one life, and I want to live to the fullest. Also, I want to inspire other people to go for their dreams. Industry My relationships with other artistes are fair enough because I am a loner. I don’t talk so much. However, if an artiste has a gig, I will show up. I also send them messages from time to time, and comment on their posts. Clients As a dentist, I handle tough clients with patience and understanding. I try to understand why they are being difficult and reacting the way they do. I also approach issues patiently. I try to calm the situation. Quitting I have felt like giving up many times. Sometimes, I ask myself, what am I even doing? For somebody that has a reasonably good life, I ask myself why I put myself in this situation. It is a situation of crying and laughing. I cry because I don’t know what else to do, and I laugh because I put myself in this situation. However, I really don’t want to give up. Collaboration If given the opportunity, I will like to perform with artistes such as Kizz Daniel, Wizkid, Bella Shmurda, Rihanna, Jay-Z, Kanye West and Billie Eilish. Plans I am making plans to sustain my name in the industry by continuing to re-invent myself. I will continue to put out my message to the world, collaborate with other people and add value to my audience. Songs I have released a total of eight songs. The first one is, True, and it was released in 2018 when I started rapping. Prior to that, I had put out In Love with a Hustler, in 2015, which was when I had my first heartbreak. So far, it is my highest earning song. Perhaps, it was because of the emotions I put into the song. In 2019, I released Main Chic, which described me as an intelligent but sensual being. Others are Made Sense and Ogbon. Marriage I am saving money so that my children can go to good schools and have quality upbringing. I will appreciate if the universe gives me the opportunity to raise geniuses. When I find someone who is going to be a good father, we will get married. Sensuality There is a possibility that people will objectify me for posting sensual pictures on social media. But, people objectify women, whether they are all covered up or they expose their bodies. I am not doing it to impress anyone or gain attention. I am a deeply artistic human being. Experiences I once had a weird experience with a fan because of the kinds of pictures I post on social media. Someone who needed my consultation (as a dentist) asked me to come to his hotel room. When I went with someone, he looked furious. He asked why I came with someone because he wanted us to be alone. I don’t let that happen anymore because I always go with more than one person (for consultations). Dentistry Dentistry helps me to serve people by sharing my knowledge on oral care habits and other lessons. If I give up dentistry and become a full-time artiste, will that mean I have dropped dentistry? That is a very thin line I do not want to cross yet. Sacrifice I have made a lot of sacrifice for my career. I had to break up with a guy because he did not see the need for me to do music. I did not blame him because he actually knew me as a dentist. The second sacrifice was shunning everybody who knew me as a dentist and proving to them that I could be a rapper. I had to reduce communication with a lot of people who did not understand why I should be a rapper. Female artistes I don’t know why some female artistes have been accused of not supporting their female colleagues. On my own, I have tried with limited funds to support others. I host a show every Monday on Instagram to support rappers. I give out N20,000 to support them to pay for studio recordings and promotion. Body The part of my body I cherish the most is my brain. I love my brain, as well as the fact that God put so much zeal, ruggedness and determination in me. Fashion My style of dressing depends on what the event is. I use a creative combination to look different. But, when I am going to work, I dress appropriately. I just like to be stylish. My favourite fashion accessories are my gold chain, wrist watch and custom-made gold teeth grills. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com