The crisis rocking Nigerian basketball took a new twist Wednesday after the Ahmadu-Musa Kida led board of the Nigeria Basketball Federation denounced the Interim Management Committee set up by the sports ministry to oversee basketball in the country. The sports ministry Monday announced it had appointed a committee to oversee Nigerian basketball, following a two-year ban on international basketball following the leadership crisis that tore the NBB into two factions. The Ahmadu-Kida led NBBF in a statement said the interim committee was alien to the NBBF statutes. “The attention of the NBBF has been drawn to the press statement emanating from the Federal Ministry of Youth and Sports Development, regarding the constitution of an Interim Management Committee, put in place to run basketball in Nigeria, instead of the legally elected board of the NBBF, that was legitimately elected by its Congress, made up of the Certified  Delegates of the NBBF, at the January 31 Elective Congress, which held in Benin, Edo State, in a free, fair and transparent election with the firm approval of the ministry,” the statement read in part. “The Nigeria Basketball Federation, therefore, denounces the Interim Management Committee set up by the Federal Ministry of Youth and Sports Development, as this action is not in line with the provisions of the NBBF approved statutes, which the ministry vetted, accepted and a copy was domiciled with them. “The idea of an Interim Management Committee is alien to the NBBF statutes as approved by the same Ministry of Youths and Sports Development, the NOC and FIBA, under which the affairs of the federation are governed. It further violates FIBA Statutes and Regulations and is indeed a deliberate usurpation of power that has made Nigeria a laughing stock amongst the comity of basketball-playing nations.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com