The All Progressives Grand Alliance has said that criminality in Anambra State will soon be a thing of the past as the State Governor, Prof. Chukwuma Soludo, is adopting the “carrot and stick” approach. The party also said that Soludo’s actions had shown the whole Anambra people that his administration will not tolerate any form of criminality. The ruling party also warned perpetrators of crime not to take the governor’s peaceful disposition for granted. Addressing journalists in Awka, on Wednesday, the National Coordinator, APGA Media Warriors Forum, Chinedu Obigwe, expressed displeasure at a recent incident where cultists disrupted a scheduled meeting between the governor and Keke drivers. Obigwe said the governor came prepared and determined to crush all forms of criminality in the state in order to execute his good plans for the people. He cautioned the perpetrators of crime to heed the governor’s advice by accepting his olive branch and surrender their weapons for peace to reign in Anambra. He said, “Recently, there was an ugly incident that transpired in Awka, during a meeting scheduled to hold between Governor Soludo and keke riders. “The Keke riders wanted to thank the governor for ending tourism in Anambra and as they gathered at the Ekwueme Square, cultists invaded the meeting venue and beat up one Osita, who was rushed to a hospital. “An Igbo adage says ‘do not touch the tail of a lion whether dead or alive’. Soludo is that proverbial lion whose tail should not be touched. “The best thing for criminals is for them to heed the governor’s advice by accepting his olive branch and surrender their weapons for peace to reign in our state.” While condemning the attack and disruption of the scheduled meeting, the APGA chieftain commended the tricycle operators for coming out en masse to thank the governor for ending tourism in the state. Obigwe added that the perpetrators of such acts need to pay for their deeds, adding that Anambra, under Soludo’s watch will not be a state the cultists can play with. “Any cultists joking with Soludo’s directive should not complain when he starts dealing with them ruthlessly. The governor came prepared and he is determined to crush criminality in the state. “So any criminal that refused to change from his evil ways will have him or herself to blame. We encourage everybody to continue supporting the administration of Soludo because he has good plans for Anambra,” he stated. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com