The Edo State Police Command has arrested a man, Benson Nosakhare, who masqueraded as a prophet to defraud unsuspecting members of the public. The state Police Public Relations Officer, SP Bello Kontongs, in a statement on Thursday, said one of Nosakhare’s victims, Mr Osamudiamen Thompson, addressed a petition to the Commissioner of Police, Edo State, lamenting that he was hypnotised and his car collected by the suspect. The statement read in part, “Operatives of the Edo State Police Command on May 3, 2022, arrested a fraudster masquerading as a prophet, Benson Nosakhare, who preyed on unsuspecting members of the public through the use of false prophecy and divine pronouncements. “One of his victims, Osamudiamen Thompson, in a petition to the Commissioner of Police, Edo State, complained that he was hypnotised by Prophet Nosakhare of the Power Ground Chapel Incorporated situated at 3, Uwa Street, Off 2nd East Circular Road, Benin City. “According to the victim, the prophet claimed he saw him in a vision where he had an accident with his Lexus ES 350 car. He said the prophet told him that for him to avert the accident he should use the car to sow a seed to the Lord, which he did in his church. “He further stated that after he came back to his senses, he noticed that the prophet had already changed the colour of the car from gold to black and was already using it. “Also recovered from the prophet were Lexus ES 350 and Lexus RX 350. “The suspect has confessed to the crime and will be charged in court accordingly.” The state Commissioner of Police, Abutu Yaro, was quoted as warning residents against fake prophets and prophecies designed to instil fear in them while losing their money, goods and other items to fake men of God.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com