Stanbic IBTC Bank says the Nigerian private sector’s growth quickened in April, according to its Purchasing Managers Index for the month. At 55.8 in April, up from 54.1 in March, it stated that the headline PMI signalled a sharp improvement in business conditions in Nigeria’s private sector. According to the report, readings above 50.0 signalled an improvement in business conditions on the previous month, while readings below 50.0 showed a deterioration. Growth has now been seen in each of the last 22 months with the latest uptick quicker than the long-run series average, it added. It stated that “Marked and accelerated expansions in output and new orders helped drive a pick-up in growth in the Nigerian private sector during April.” However, it added, private sector performance was once again impacted by elevated rates of inflation, uncertainty and unfavourable exchange rate movements. It further said that strong demand encouraged firms to add to their inventories and raise their headcounts at an accelerated pace. Central to the improvement was an accelerated uptick in new orders, it said. The report said, “Overall rate of expansion was marked and the third-quickest in the current 22-month sequence of growth. Panellists indicated that stronger demand and greater client requirements had been behind the latest increase in new business, with growth signalled across each of the four broad sectors covered by the survey. “Strong inflows of new work resulted in a further uplift in output. The rate of growth was robust and quickened from that in March. Sub-sector data revealed expansions across the board, though agriculture recorded the quickest expansion. “Wholesale & retail, manufacturing and services followed, respectively.” “With workloads increasing, and demand expanding over the last 22 months, firms sought to boost head counts in a bid to ramp up activity. Subsequently, backlogs fell at the quickest pace for four months.” To cater to higher output volumes, it added that firms increased their buying activity in April. Stocks of purchases also rose, and at a quicker pace than in March. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com