Lagos State Government on Monday said it paid 482 retirees N1.5bn as their accrued pension rights for the month of May, 2022. A statement quoted the Commissioner for Establishments, Training, and Pensions, Ajibola Ponnle, as disclosing this during the 94th retirement bond certificate presentation to retirees of the Lagos State Public Service organised by the Lagos State Pension Commission. According to Ponnle, the state is committed to the payment of retirees’ benefits, adding Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olus’ administration has remained consistent in this regard. She said, “Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu has been a consistent high flyer in the pension industry with over N40.5bn paid to 10,862 retirees in the mainstream, local government, state Universal Basic Board, Teaching Service Commission and other parastatals of the state government from May 2019 till date. “His vision is to have a dynamic, efficient and effective workforce to pilot the agenda of a ‘Greater Lagos’. The safe retirement and welfare of our officers is a major priority in actualising this goal.” The commissioner advised retirees to learn about the different options for investing the funds in their retirement accounts. She urged them to seek competent and reliable sources on matters concerning pensions. “Do not hesitate to contact LASPEC or even the Ministry of Establishments, Training and Pensions for questions or clarifications regarding the modalities surrounding your retirement benefit matters,” she said. The Permanent Secretary, Establishment Training and Pension, Dr Biodun Onayele, said, “The Lagos State Government has been working round the clock to ensure that all backlogs are cleared before the end of the current administration. This is to ensure that these retirees are not denied what is due to them. That is why Lagos State has been tagged a friendly pensioner’s state awarded the governor.”  Contact: theeditor@punchng.com Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com