Barring any unforeseen challenges, the primaries of the parties convened to throw up candidates for the presidential, governorship and National Assembly elections will be held in the next couple of weeks thereby accelerating the journey to the 2023 elections. The road to the primaries has been populated by much excitement, hoopla, twist and surprises. Unprecedented in our history, to cite one example, is the large number of aspirants that turned up in the big parties especially within the ruling All Progressives Congress, which fielded about 30 presidential aspirants, while the Peoples Democratic Party came up with 15. Concerning the ruling party, it was as if anybody who could possibly run decided to enter the fray, not minding the rarefied sum of N100 million imposed by the party on the aspirants or old political ties dating back, in some cases, to three decades. One recalls that when in 2015 the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.) was running for president on the platform of the APC, it was difficult for him to come up with the stipulated amount of N27.5 million, which, according to him, his bank manager kindly extended to him as a loan. Four years later, not taking account of Buhari’s harrowing experience in 2015, the party raised the cost of forms to N45 million. Those relatively modest sums, if you call them that, prepared no one for the humongous amount of a N100 million, which, according to those who have done the arithmetic, is more than the salary in four years of either the president or the vice president. This is the issue. If a retired general of Buhari’s calibre had to raise a loan to pay the cost of forms in 2015, is it not discriminatory, at least towards the professional class, that the APC was asking for N100 million for those who wished to contest for the presidency? If as it turns out the money exceeds the salaries of any Nigerian official appointed or elected for four years, then tongues are bound to wag as to how the aspirants were able to obtain that money, notwithstanding the shenanigan of those claiming that their “supporters” paid a huge chunk of the amount. Those may be matters for another day but future scholars inspecting the character of the current transition will no doubt raise awkward questions about that decision. A related issue is that as the number of aspirants soared, the whole thing was beginning to look like a game or a script written by some people behind the scenes. In one particular instance, still on the comic side, two presidential aspirants attended each other’s declaration for the Office of the President and even expressed goodwill messages to each other. One interpretation is to see this as good sportsmanship. In most other countries, sportsmanship is displayed in congratulating one’s opponent after the game is over. The possibility of a script by a hidden hand bears close inspection. Some have theorised that Buhari himself is an undeclared aspirant for the office he currently occupies. There is no hard data yet to support the hypothesis, but please recall that on Wednesday a senior lawyer, Robert Clarke, SAN, called for the postponement of the 2023 election so that government could better deal with insecurity. Some, including Chief Wole Olanipekun, SAN, smelt a rat in the proposal and warned against the prospect of tenure elongation through the backdoor. If there is credibility to the Buhari candidature, then the harvest of aspirants bordering on farce can be understood as turning a serious game to a parody by unnecessarily multiplying the number of aspirants from every nook and corner of the country. Some others in search of explanations contend that a particular geographical region is playing a game of divide-and-rule in order that its own aspirants might stand better chances in view of the bedlam and political arson in other geographical regions. Whatever explanations are upheld or touted, it is difficult to understand how the scramble for the presidential office of a highly indebted country, which in a sense remains the world’s poverty capital bedevilled with several other problems, became so heated at the outset. Noticeably, the opposition PDP has for the first time since inception jettisoned its eminently sensible policy of zoning of presidential aspirant for an all-comers affair. Time will tell what the real motives of the about-turn are and whether the new policy is targeted at a particular zone or region and whether the country as a whole will be the better or worse for it. If the APC follows suit, we may well have the spectre of two Northern presidential candidates battling each other for the presidential office after eight years of a Northern presidency. If it does not pan out that way, the country may witness a fair amount of polarisation of a North versus South variety as occurred in 2015 with Buhari and former President Goodluck Jonathan slugging it out. Talking about Jonathan, it is not clear what has become of his much talked about presidential ambition on the platform of the APC which in 2015 sent him packing as a clueless leader. As my colleague, Punch columnist, Abimbola Adelakun, pointed out recently, the very proposition of a new Jonathan presidency indicates that not much has changed in Nigeria between 2015 and now. I buy the argument to the extent that if the promise of change had been validated, the idea of a Jonathan presidency would stink to high heavens at the very mention of it. That argument can be extended to include many of the aspirants who have been going around making rosy promises without telling us why earlier promises failed to be actualised. That is another way of saying with regret that had the ante of governance been raised in the last seven or so years, those unlikely to accelerate the tempo of change will be nowhere to be found in the upcoming elections. True, one or two names stand out peripherally in the list of office seekers. But on the whole, the nation may be singing from the old hymn sheets that have continuously led us in the perpetual race to the bottom in which we find ourselves. Without sounding pessimistic, it is unlikely that on present terms and unless a miracle happens, the forthcoming elections will be our point of departure for a new Nigeria. One illustration that makes the point is the unwillingness or tardiness of political appointees including members of the Federal Executive Council to resign their offices in order to contest for the primaries. After a lot of back-and-forth of section 84(12) of the Electoral Act 2022, it took Buhari’s directive to get appointees to see the need to resign their jobs in order to stand elections in the current season. The directive, notwithstanding, some of the aspirants are in court trying to overthrow the legal requirement for them to resign their offices. That is to say if they have their way most or nearly all of them will sit pretty in their appointment while campaigning for the Presidency of the Republic. That certainly is not a healthy signal that this crowd of aspirants really mean to change anything. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com