The Northern Elders Forum on Thursday asked the Ohaneze Ndigbo to redirect its attention toward ensuring the security of South-East people rather than threatening other section of the country. This as the Forum also raised the alarm over the life of its Director of Media and Publicity, Dr. Hakeem Baba-Ahmed, which, it said, was at risk following alleged threat from the Ohaneze Ndigbo. The Northern Elders Forum said should anything happen to him, it knows who should be held responsible. The convener of NEF and former Vice Chancellor of the Ahmadu Bello University, Zaria, Prof. Ango Abdullahi, said these in a statement issued on Thursday night in reaction to the statement earlier released by the Spokesperson of Ohanaeze Ndigbo, Dr. Alex Ogbonnia. He said, “My attention has been drawn to comments by spokesman of Ohaneze Ndigbo, Dr. Alex Ogbonnia, on the Director of Publicity and Advocacy of Northern Elders Forum, Dr. Hakeem Baba-Ahmed. These comments are, to say the least, dangerous and irresponsible, designed to achieve only one goal: to put the life of Dr. Baba-Ahmed in peril. “The Northern Elders Forum states categorically that all comments and statements made by Dr. Baba-Ahmed are authorized, and they represent its positions. “The press statement which he read on June 8 2021 at the Forum’s Headquarters in Abuja in the presence of the full Forum was the statement of the Forum by which it still stands. “We are aware of attempts to create the impression that this statement is recent, as well as other attempts to misrepresent its contents to create scapegoats for the failure to limit the damage of irredentism. “In spite of many efforts to inform the public appropriately, it appears that Ohaneze Ndigbo has fallen prey to more mischief, or is itself actively involved in incitement against a citizen. “The Forum stands by its Director of Publicity and Advocacy, a Nigerian whose pedigree and service to our nation has few parallels. It sees the claim that Dr. Baba-Ahmed is a security risk, and the demand that he should be arrested as pathetic and beneath even the ordinary standards of Ohaneze Ndigbo. “We serve notice that we know who to hold responsible in the event of any harm to Dr. Baba-Ahmed. “The Forum advises Ohaneze Ndigbo to focus its attention on contributing to securing people of the South East from multiple threats, and ensuring that Ndigbo has a befitting relevance in Nigeria. The Forum affirms its full confidence in Dr. Hakeem Baba-Ahmed, who will continue to serve the country and the North as we search for a future that accommodates all interests in Nigeria.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com