The governorship candidate of the All Progressives Congress in Oyo State, Senator Teslim Folarin, has been told to desist from dragging Governor Seyi Makinde’s name into the controversies rocking the opposition party. Special Assistant (Print Media) to the Oyo State governor, Moses Alao, gave this warning on Monday, urging Folarin to bear the cross of his “desperate and evil political scheming, which brought trouble to the APC. The statement added that instead of pointing accusing fingers at the governor, Folarin should concentrate on fixing the myriad of problems facing his party. The response is coming on the heels of a statement in which Folarin claimed that Governor Makinde was using an APC National Assembly member, Shina Peller, to blackmail him. According to Alao, the claim by Folarin was unfounded and laughable, as he wondered why a three-term senator and former governorship candidate would sulk like a baby and try to hide behind one finger after he has been caught in the webs of his desperation and shenanigans. Alao wondered why it was convenient for Folarin to accuse Governor Makinde of using Peller against him when in actual fact. The statement read, “In what appeared to be a comedy of the absurd, Oyo APC governorship candidate, Senator Teslim Folarin, claimed that Governor Makinde is using the member representing Iseyin/Itesiwaju/Kajola/Iwajowa Federal Constituency, against him. “Is it not strange how Senator Folarin can go from sounding like a warrior, brandishing swords and threatening violence to sulking like a baby, accusing a PDP governor of using a senatorial aspirant in his (Folarin’s) party against him? “While Governor Makinde was busy with the PDP National Convention, planning how to rescue Nigeria from the clueless APC, Senator Folarin and his APC journeymen were trying to undo one another in thuggery and evil scheming, a development that has now brought the APC to its knees. “It was, therefore, funny that Folarin could falsely accuse Makinde of being his party’s problem, when it is obvious that he (Folarin) is reaping a whirlwind where he has sown a wind. “One thing is clear; Senator Folarin is trying to hide behind one finger after his shenanigans have caught up with him, as the undemocratic and party-hijacking tendencies have blown in his face across the State. We do not have any words of sympathy for the APC, may the party not recover!
“However, if Folarin has an issue with Hon. Peller, a senatorial aspirant in his party and some thugs allegedly linked to him (Folarin) were arrested over attempts to unleash violence in Iseyin, what has that got to do with Makinde? “Obviously, Senator Folarin tried to drag the governor’s name into this situation because the pressure of the troubles in APC is getting harder by the day, with the party hemorrhaging heavily, as stalwarts protesting against Folarin’s shenanigans have drawn a battle line.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com