THE Nigerian Economic Summit Group has recommended tax reforms, fiscal restructuring and project-specific borrowing in order to reduce the country’s high debt burden. The group also canvassed the use of technology in expenditure management and alternative financing to achieve fiscal sustainability. These are contained in the Debt Management Roundtable’s report on debt management and sustainability in ECOWAS presented by NESG to the Debt Management Office, DMO, on Thursday in Abuja. The DMR is an initiative of the Nigerian Economic Summit Group and Open Society Initiative for West Africa. NESG also called for reduction in the cost of governance, debt restructuring, and an independent and autonomous debt management office that would be involved in economic planning, expenditure management and revenue strategy. In a statement, NESG CEO, ‘Laoye Jaiyeola,  highlighted the depth of research and sub-regional collaboration involved in the production of the report, as well as its significance for sustainable debt management across the region, if implemented. Nigeria’s public debt hit N39tn in December 2021, according to the DMO. Experts say the government is likely to take on more debt as the country’s revenue continues to dwindle. Jaiyeola said Nigeria was a focal point for debt sustainability, considering that the country accounted for 50 per cent and 67 per cent of the region’s total debt and GDP respectively. In her keynote address, the Director-General, DMO, Patience Oniha, said the timing of the launch of the report could not have been more appropriate with the global debt levels already rising pre-COVID-19 and still growing since the COVID-19 pandemic started in the year 2020. The DMR Chairman, Taiwo Oyedele, identified corruption in public spending, insecurity, geopolitical challenges, resource overdependency, and a shallow tax base as some major drivers of unsustainable debt. The report proposes a 10-point action plan under an integrated strategy for revenue optimisation, expenditure efficiency and debt management. Inaugurated in March 2021, the DMR was tasked with providing viable alternatives and recommendations that government could apply to ensure public debt was sustainably managed.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com