The New Nigeria Peoples Party on Thursday said it had enlisted over 1,000 non-governmental organisations and civil rights movements that would support them in the 2023 general elections. The party expressed optimism that with the support they were getting, they believed that a former governor of Kano State, Musa Kwankwaso, would be the next President of Nigeria. The Liaison Officer of the NNPP, Bashir Mohammed Abacha, stated these during a meeting the party convened with the NGOs that are registered with the party. According to him, the meeting aimed to know the challenges, prospects and the actualisation of their dreams from the NGOs perspective. Abacha said, “It is not like we only have 50 registered NGOs. We have much more than that and they are under my office. We have started a meeting we will be doing in serries so we have 50 NGOs today in this meeting. We have over 1000 registered NGOs and associations we are dealing with right now. “The essence is that, if you are going for an election, you need people with electoral value. The associations are from the National, States, and the Local Governments. If you are registered with the corporate affairs commission, the chances are that you have people right from the ward and at the national level. “That’s why we are partnering with them to ensure that we have genuine association with genuine people.” Speaking on the chances of Kwankwaso in the 2023 election, Abacha said there was no politician amongst the constestants that can defeat Kwankwanso. “Tell me in the whole of Nigeria who has the capacity of Rabiu Kwankwaso to govern Nigeria. Forget about the big names you are hearing. This man has the pedigree. He was a governor, Minister and Senator. He lost election as governor and still came back. Kwankwaso is an exceptional politician. “No one loses election as a sitting governor and still come back. Kwankwanso came back to complete his eight years tenure.
“No politician has his pedigree and he stand as the most qualified politician Nigeria has at the moment. We are confidence that Kwankwaso will win. “Our party is having alot of sympathy and it is as a result of Kwankwaso. Infact, people are leaving the PDP and the APC to the NNPP as a result of the leadership qualities of Kwankwanso. His compassion, acceptability and performance is attracting alot of people to Kwankwaso”, he said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com