The Academic Staff Union of Universities has threatened to sanction members who comply with the directive of the management of Ambrose Alli University, Ekpoma to resume and present students’ results. The PUNCH gathered that the management of the school had asked Heads of Departments to present the recently released first batch of 2019/2020 results to their respective Deans for National Youth Service Corps mobilisation. But in a circular obtained by our correspondent on Sunday, the Chairman of ASUU, AAU Ekpoma, Dr Cyril Onogbosele, asked the union members not to comply with the university’s directive. The circular was titled, ‘Compilation, submission, presentation, consideration and approval/endorsement of students results during ASUU strike: members of ASUU, AAU, Ekpoma should not comply’. The circular read, “Comrades, the Union is aware of the directive or request by the University authority asking Heads of Departments to present the recently released 1st batch of 2019/2020 results and other results to their respective Deans for endorsement in respect of mobilisation for NYSC. “For the avoidance of doubt, all academic activities are prohibited during the ASUU strike (including the ongoing national strike). “Therefore, no member of the Union should comply with the University’s directive or request for treatment of students results in any form during the current strike. Doing so amounts to a violation of the ongoing strike of the Union. “The Union will not hesitate to appropriately sanction any member of the Union (non-office holders, HOD, Deans, etc.) who breaks or violates the ongoing strike of the Union. “Any member of the Union in doubt of what to do with directives, requests or invitations by the University Administration during the ongoing strike should contact the Chairperson of the Union.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com