The Kaduna State Police Command has apprehended a suspect who specialises in supplying ammunition to bandits terrorising the state. Identified as Rilwanu Abdullahi, the state command’s Public Relations Officer, ASP Mohammed Jalige, said in a statement on Wednesday that the suspect was arrested by operatives attached to the Zaria command, acting on a tip-off. The police spokesman disclosed that items recovered from the suspect included an AK 47 rifle and 600 rounds of 7.62 X 39mm live concealed inside the fuel tank of Volkswagen with number plate AX 973 LGA as well as two vehicles used in conveying weapons to bandits. He said, “On May 17, 2022, the operatives of the Kaduna Police Command attached to Zaria Area Command, acted on credible intelligence and succeeded in arresting one Rilwanu Abdullahi ‘M’ of Damari village, Birnin Gwari Local Government Area, Kaduna State, with an AK47 rifle with six hundred (600) rounds of 7.62 X 39mm live ammunition. “The aforementioned suspect was seen in a suspicious manner around Madachi area of Zaria city and on sighting the operatives, the suspect attempted to escape but was chased and apprehended. A search carried out on the Volkswagen vehicle with Reg. no KNC 816 XC led to the recovery of the said rifle. “Upon further interrogation, the suspect led detectives to another location where an additional Volkswagen car with Reg.No AX 973 LGA was recovered with the said number of live ammunitions carefully concealed inside the fuel tank aimed at evading the eagle eyes of security operatives.” Jalige noted that despite all odds the command was not relenting in ensuring that no stone was left unturned in its resolve to reduce crime to the barest minimum. According to him, the Command is soliciting the support of the general public in the area of information sharing, particularly on the informant to bandits as that is the root of bandits’ operations. If the informants are dislodged, the bandits will be suffocated and lack ground to operate. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com