Nigerian philanthropist and businesswoman, Mrs Folorunso Alakija, has urged the Nigerian government to prevail on banks in the country to reduce their stringent requirements in order to support and enable small and medium enterprises thrive and contribute to the economy. A statement said Alakija, who is one of Africa’s most influential women in Nigeria,  said this while featuring as a guest on CNN’s One World with Zain Asher, where she discussed the African economy and how Nigeria as Africa’s engine room could diversify its economy to the benefit of the growing population. Speaking on the impacts of high inflation, high-interest rate and unemployment on SMEs, Alakija spoke on the need for the government to make banks in the country reduce their stringent requirements for SMEs. She said, “The government has a big role to play; get banks to reduce the usually stringent requirements for SMEs, and interest rates need to be lowered. “The government also needs to improve the quality of infrastructure; infrastructure is an area that is causing problems and it has negative impacts on SMEs in the country.” Alakija said she gave back to her community primarily through the Rose of Sharon Foundation, a voluntary, non-profit, faith-based, non-governmental organisation focused on easing the burdens for widows and orphans. Speaking on the foundation that was set up 13 years ago, she said, “We found many entrepreneurs among the widows. We give them money for their businesses and send their children to school up to the university level by way of scholarship.” She also stated that she gave back to young female entrepreneurs through her Flourish Africa initiative, which was set up five years ago as a platform to mentor and guide young female entrepreneurs. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com