The Institute of Chartered Accountants of Nigeria has partnered with the Bank of Industry to establish a world-class hub aimed at advancing competence and promoting the entrepreneurial skills of members. According to a statement, ICAN President, Mrs. Comfort Eyitayo, stated this on Tuesday in her address of welcome at the commissioning of the innovation hub in Lagos. “The Institute sought this collaboration with BOI as part of its overall strategy for building the digital and entrepreneurial skills and competencies of its members and the public. The Hub would help the Institute, its members, and the participating public to leverage the growing community of tech and innovation talent for delivering new accounting and business-related digital products and services to Nigerians, and possibly the world at large,” Eyitayo stated. Speaking, the Managing Director/CEO, Bank of Industry, Mr. Kayode Pitan, noted that technology played a dominant role in many professions by transforming the way businesses operated, resulting in improved efficiency, cost savings, and simplified processes. He said, “Accountancy profession is one of such, and in recognition of this, the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Nigeria and the Bank of Industry have collaborated to birth the ICAN-BOI Tech Hub. This hub was set up to ensure that members of the Institute, as well as the society at large, can access the necessary skills and competencies required to become job creators and productive contributors in today’s tech-savvy world.” In his keynote address, a former President, ICAN, Alh. Razak Jaiyeola observed that nations that nurtured a digital and innovation-based culture had pioneered the global shift towards knowledge-based industries and enjoyed extraordinary wealth and job creation while transforming the way people lived and did business. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com