The leadership of the National Association of University Students in Osun State, on Sunday accused some operatives of Amotekun Corps in the state of assault and extortion of three students of Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile-Ife. A statement signed by NAUS chairman and Publicity Secretary, Eruobami Ayobami and Lawal Idris respectively, obtained in Osogbo on Sunday said the operatives of Amotekun Corps that were involved perpetrated the act at Mayfair Area in Ile-Ife on Saturday. The group said the three students involved were attacked and beaten with dangerous objects after which one of them was forcefully made to pay N100,000. The statement further read, “The attention of the leadership of NAUS was called to an incident of harassment and cruel attack on students of Obafemi Awolowo University, which happened on Saturday April 30 around 3am. “Members of Amotekun Squad who we can boldly refer to as ‘devil in human body,’ started a strange impromptu stop and search routine at Mayfair after a robbery attack as proclaimed by officers of the force, where three students were harassed, beaten with harmful instruments (axe, guns) and were later extorted of a sum of N100, 000, which was forcefully collected from one of the students.” The group called for suspension of the operatives involved and demanded a refund of the money collected from one of the victims within five working days. But when contacted, Osun Amotekun spokesperson, Yusuf Idowu, denied alleged extortion, saying “our operatives chased some armed robbers from Ilesa-Ife Express Road, after they hijacked a truck from a driver, and went through Modakeke to Ife. “After a gun duel with the robbers, we arrested one of them identified as Solo. Other members of the gang ran away in another car and our operatives were on their trail. Suddenly, a vehicle emerged from a junction and blocked one of the vehicles on the trail of these robbers. It was a case of aiding robbery suspect. “After proper identification, some of those arrested at the scene were released, while the suspected armed robber was taken to Amotekun Olorunda command headquarters in Osogbo. He was handed over to the police later in the day. We did not collect money from anyone at the scene.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com