A former Big Brother Naija (Shine Ya Eye) housemate, Beatrice Nwaji, celebrated her birthday during the week. Aside from getting many well wishes on social media, she also got cash gifts of about N4.5m from her fans. In an interview with Sunday Scoop, Nwaji said that of the money, N2.5m was a gift from a supporter who is based abroad. She said, “In total, I received N4.5m. Some people sent money directly to my team. I got to know that N2.5m was a gift from a supporter who is based abroad. She, together with her brother and friends organised the birthday party. Honestly I was not expecting anything because I thought everyone was busy facing and solving their own problems. However, with this show of love, I am really grateful and this gives me strength, knowing that people still support me, though they are not noise makers. I feel really happy and strengthened.” On what she is most grateful for, the ex-reality show contestant said, “I am grateful for everything. I literally ‘started’ my life as a young girl at the age of 27 and in two years, a lot has changed. From being a caged baby in my parents’ house till I was 19, to being controlled and caged by my ex from the age of 20 to 27. I am so sure that if I had my wasted years back, a lot of growth would have happened. But, a blessed child is a blessed, irrespective of when the blessings start coming. I am grateful to God for everything.” Advising ladies in toxic relationships, she said, “I feel the need to tell my story through a movie. Perhaps, it will help a lot of women. I can remember I left my ex with just N50,000 (to my name) and booked a flight to Lagos with N25,000. I feel that the first step to success is to move far away from the negativity that reminds one of failure. I just told myself that (in the worst case scenario), I would sleep under the bridge and start selling sachet water business. But, the night before I left Port Harcourt, I called my mum and in tears, we both prayed and she blessed me. When I got to Lagos, God did a lot of wonders (in my life) and He is still doing it. Many women decide to stay (in abusive relationships) because of money, forgetting that money cannot bring them back to life if they die.” Asked if she can marry the person she is dating at the moment, the model said, “I am actually seeing someone who is also a popular personality. Yes, I will definitely get married, but not to him because I can’t deal with having both of our lives on social media. The only condition is if he continues keeping our relationship low key. Even if we get married, our wedding pictures would not be posted on social media. It is also possible that he may talk me out of it but for now, those are my thoughts.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com