A senatorial aspirant for Ogun East District, Segun Senbanjo, has dropped his ambition and stepped down for another contender, Otunba Oluseyi Oduntan. Senbanjo announced his withdrawal on Thursday shortly after addressing the All Progressives Congress delegates and Ogun East stakeholders in the state. This was contained in a statement signed by his media office titled, ‘Ogun East: Supporters in tears as Sebanjo drops senatorial ambition’. While comforting his supporters who received his announcement in bewilderment, the senatorial aspirant said his decision was for the greater good of the constituency. Senbanjo, however, asked his supporter to redirect their support toward the aspiration of Oduntan, who he said, was equally qualified and capable for the job. He also promised to remain with the supporters while urging the delegates to spare no efforts to cast their ballots in support of Oduntan. Senbanjo also used the opportunity to recommit to the second-term ambition of Governor Dapo Abiodun, while assuring that he will work assiduously to get the governor re-elected. Earlier while addressing the delegates, Ogun East stakeholders, and 18 state executives, Senbanjo described the governor as an achiever who had performed excellently in all sectors. He said, “I cannot over-emphasise that H.E Dapo Abiodun remains the best performing Governor Ogun State has ever produced in the history of the State. His excellent performance in various sectors of our local economy is not only exceptional but exemplary in the areas of Infrastructure, Education, Health, and Transportation. “He has achieved a record that none of his predecessors could boast of, by increasing the State IGR to N100 billion, attracting Direct Foreign Investment to the State of up to $1 billion dollars. “Furthermore, he remains the first Governor of Ogun State to establish an Agro hub airport and also build several Ports in the State. “Governor Abiodun remains the 1st Governor to create high numbers of levels of Job creation never witnessed in the State, thereby reducing the rate of unemployment never witnessed before. “On infrastructure, I cannot overemphasise that H.E Dapo Abiodun remains the best performing Governor of Ogun State, he is the best ever produced in the history of the State. “His excellent performance in various sectors of our local economy is not only exceptional but exemplary in the areas of Infrastructure, Education, Health, and Transportation.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com