An Abia State governorship aspirant on the platform of the All Progressives Grand Alliance, Chikwe Udensi, has said that he will not use the state resources to please selfish individuals for the party patronage. The aspirant who spoke to our correspondent ahead of the APGA governorship primary election on Sunday May 29, 2022 insisted that he would utilise the state’s resources for the purposes of development if elected governor. Udensi, who is a security expert, frowned at the act of attempting to lure him to share the state’s money with the party members for him to get the party ticket. He said, “It will be evil of me to use Abia State resources to share amongst people within the party. Governance should not be given to poor people who will not be focused on the judicious use of state funds. “I won’t negotiate with anybody on what I will do with the state money and I won’t share state money for nothing. I will ensure I utilise the state resources for the progress of Abia.” The APGA governorship aspirant said he embarked on the distribution of palliatives to pensioners and the elderly in the state to intervene in their problems as a result of their outright abandonment by government was adding more sufferings to them. He charged the delegates in forthcoming primaries to fight towards the liberation of Abia State, stressing that the fight for the number one seat in Abia requires a man who has the fear of God and understands the plights of the people. He said, “Don’t be deceived by the fake promises by some politicians. You must vote for people based on their track records and what they have achieved for humanity”. He promised to introduce international best practices in terms of infrastructural development, healthcare services and other basic amenities if he becomes the next governor of Abia State. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com