Coming across this quote brought to memory an experience of many years back. The quote says, “Don’t judge people based on how they appear, as they may have difficulties that nobody can see.” We had boarded a luxury bus from Lagos to Port Harcourt on the said day and you know those kinds of vehicles take all day on long distance journeys. We made about three stop-overs on that day; two at their various inter-state terminals and the third one was when the bus developed a fault and had to be fixed. So, we all disembarked. Aside from going for refreshments and making use of the loo, passengers also used such moments to mingle. That’s how I met him, a chubby looking young man, light skinned and it seemed he spoke little but smiled a lot with his eyes. There was something overly gentle or slow about him but I figured it’s his nature. He really is handsome. And I guess his good looks made me not think much about a certain nagging thought that seemed to persist about him. Remember I said, “something was a little too slow about him.’’ Yes, that’s the thought that stubbornly hovered somewhere in my mind. I also noticed that two or three young men (although keeping their distance) noticeably kept an eye on him. You only needed to look up to find them “not far away’’ from wherever he was. Within me, I said “this one that brought body-guards into a luxury bus. Doesn’t he know that ‘big men’ do flights, instead?’’ At subsequent stop-overs, he would come to me and we would make small talks. He nodded and smiled more. Again, I concluded that he is not the chatty type as I did the talking mostly. When the vehicle made a final stop at the terminal of the transport company, he began to come towards me again with a smile. I had a bag that I was struggling to bring down and he just stood smiling at me, instead of helping me out!? That set off something in me. I concluded within me that “this one that can’t even help a lady with her bag, Please, I can’t deal with such arrogance.” I mean, every growing lady in our time had it harped into us to always look out for the “gentle in the man’’ as a first impression. Anyway, to register my displeasure, I immediately stopped smiling at him and went about locating a taxi to take me into town. After a while (and feeling that I was being watched), I had a strong urge to look back and he was still standing there, looking at me. But the smile wasn’t broad anymore. I became distracted again haggling over fare with the taxi driver and having him load my bag into his vehicle. Done with the driver, I looked back again and that’s when I saw something that still haunts me till this day. He too was being helped to get into the car that had come for them by those guys that were with him. Apparently, he has health challenges and couldn’t do much for himself. Frankly, if that vehicle had not already started moving by the time I collected my thoughts, I would have run over to just say “I am sorry” for simply NOT understanding and then, for judging him and concluding so fast about his person. It is usually implied that “first impression carries the day.” But sometimes, that impression you have of someone is not the whole story. Reality remains that people are daily grappling with the heaviness of issues that they don’t even wear on their sleeves.  Thus ‘’the greatest form of charity may be to withhold judgment.’’ Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com