Lecturers in public polytechnics across the country will resume on May 30, 2022 following a directive by the Academic Staff Union of Polytechnics. The union had on May 16, 2022 commenced a two-week warning strike over the failure of the government to meet some lingering demands. Some of the demands are the payment of N15bn revitalisation fund for polytechnics, payment of minimum wage arrears, review of conditions of service, among others. The PUNCH had earlier reported that the Federal Government commenced the payment of the minimum wage arrears, not just for lecturers of polytechnics but for university lecturers and other tertiary institution workers in the country. While the Academic Staff Union of Universities had said the payment of the minimum wage arrears was not a part of its demands, ASUP had said otherwise. “The two-week definite strike of the union will be rounding off on the 29th of May, 2022 as agreed by the emergency meeting of NEC. Consequently, the union is requesting members to resume duties effective 30th of May, 2022, while hoping that government will take advantage of the window to address the five outstanding items. “Further directives shall be released after the 103rd meeting of NEC, which is scheduled to hold in the month of June, 2022, during which the situation shall be reviewed,” ASUP stated in the statement signed by its National Publicity Secretary, Abdullahi Yalwa. The outstanding demands of the union include: “Release of the approved N15bn revitalisation fund for the sector. “Release of arrears of CONTISS 15 migration for the lower cadre. “Release of the Scheme of Service and Conditions of Service. “Continued delay in the appointment of substantive Rectors for Federal Polytechnics in Mubi, Offa, and Kaduna.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com