The people of Ebem Ohafia community in the Ohafia Local Government Area of Abia State have called on the Federal Government to come to their rescue over the erosion ravaging the community. PUNCH Metro gathered that the palace of the paramount ruler of Ebem Ohafia, HRM Ukoha Ukoha, was also under the threat of erosion. Residents of the community lamented that they were overwhelmed by the situation, adding that they had spent a lot of money, but to no avail. The President-General of Ebem Ohafia Development Union, Mr Emeka Mba, told our correspondent that the erosion sites in the community were many, urging the Federal Ministries of Works and Environment and other relevant authorities to intervene. He stated that if urgent steps were not taken to address the problem, the community might cease to exist in a few years. In a related development, the gully in the Ika South LGA of Delta State has claimed a life. This is happening about three years after two siblings were washed away in the erosion at Alibuoba Quarters, Agbor. The lifeless body of the latest victim was seen on Saturday lying deep down in the gully measuring over 50 feet deep and 30 feet wide along the Universal Basic Education Road, beside the Agbor Technical College. Residents said their attention was drawn to the tragedy after foul odour started oozing out from the gully. PUNCH Metro learnt that the situation had heightened apprehension as over 20 buildings were under threat of possible collapse in the community. The chairman of the landlords and landladies’ association in the community, Mr Chukwuyem Odia, said house owners were already relocating and abandoning their buildings over the problem. He said, “We have called on relevant government agencies to come to our aid, but no one has answered us. “We have written to the member representing Ika South Constituency in the state House of Assembly, Mr Festus Chukwuyem Okoh; member representing Ika Federal Constituency in the National Assembly, Victor Nwokolo; the Delta State Government, among others, yet nothing was done.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com