No fewer than 11 persons have been injured as Kabba, Kogi West Senatorial District of Kogi State, witnessed another explosion on Sunday night at a beer parlour. The management of Kabba General Hospital said that it received no fewer than 11 persons, including the owner of the bar, who were injured. “Shortly after the blast, 11 persons, including the owner of the beer parlour, were brought to this hospital for medical attention,” Head of the X-Ray Unit, Dr. Ibrahim Sule, told newsmen. The hospital management said that the bar owner, Mrs. Omofemi Oyehunwa, was taken to X-ray Unit. “As you can see, she is out of the X-ray Unit, walking, which shows that she’s fast recovering from the injury she sustained on her buttocks,” Sule said. Oyehunwa expressed concern about the attack on her business premise, describing it as “wicked and deadly.” “Only God saved my life from the blast. I thank God that I am not just alive, but I can still walk despite the injury I sustained. I am grateful that nobody died in the blast,” she said. Meanwhile, the President of Kabba Development Union, Mr. Emmanuel Ajibero, who visited the blast scene and the bar owner in her hospital bed, decried the explosion. “This explosion that occurred the second time in this Kabba town in 18 days was insensitive and unacceptable to us, the citizens of Kabba-Bunu Local Government Area. “We want the government and the security agencies to rise to the occasion and do something drastic about these attacks and secure our lives and property from criminal elements,” Ajibero pleaded. The PUNCH gathered that the explosion occurred at about 9.15 pm on Sunday. That was the second explosion in that community in one month. The first explosion, which generated controversies as regards whether it was a bomb or a gas cylinder explosion, occurred on May 11 at a beer parlour around Lewu Junction. The Kogi State Police Command’s Public Relations Officer, SP William Aya, who confirmed the Sunday incident to journalists in Lokoja, said there was no casualty. The police spokesperson explained that the explosion happened at one Omofemi Bar at Okepadi Quarters, Kabba, around 9.15 pm on Sunday. He said, “As it is now, there is no casualty, but only chairs and tables. The building was affected by the explosion. “Already, the Commissioner of Police, Mr. Edward Egbuka, has directed our DC Investigations and the Bomb Detective Squad to move to the scene to ascertain the nature of the explosion. “The police are on top of the situation as our officers and men drafted to the area have cordoned the place until investigation reveals the real cause of the explosion. “It’s very unfortunate that criminal elements are out to disrupt the prevailing peace we are enjoying in Kogi. “We shall not rest until we bring to book such elements and let them see the need to maintain peace in our society.” Aya called on the people of Okepadi and Kabba to be calm and go about their normal duties without any fear as the police were on top of the situation. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com