………….. Guarantees farm ownership and management of your farm. In line with the federal government’s policy on the need to boost food production for export and local consumption, GreenHills Cassava Farmstead and Industries, an indigenous agro-allied based company has commenced sales of cassava farmland situated at Olorunsogo, Mowe/Ofada in Ogun State, to prospective farm owners who are desirous of owning a farmland while we help them manage the farm.  In a statement, the Chief Executive Officer of the company, Olanrewaju Osifeso said that GreenHills is a farmstead, that allows investors to own their cassava farm in Ogun State and the dynamic team of the company, will manage the farm effectively through; land clearing, preparation, cultivation, harvesting and marketing of the produce.  According to him, “the cassava farm units’ prices range from N560,000 for 3 plots, N1,120,000 for 1 acre to N2,800,000 for a hectare and the features of the farm include; title documents, farm monitoring via mobille app, automated payment, farm management,  farm maintenance and harvesting. Others are; mechanized farming, guaranteed off-take of farm produce and returns on the farm proceeds after harvesting every ten months perpetually”.  On why the company is focusing on the cultivation of cassava at this time, Osifeso said that due to the need to increase cassava production, GreenHills created a fully sustainable supply chain of fresh raw cassava tubers that targets to feed a 50 tons per day high quality starch cassava processing line and 75 tons per day Cassava starch processing line. In his words, “We will implement sustainable practices on over 10,000 hectares to support the processing plant for 300 working days with a targeted yield of 20 tons per hectare. Cassava is rich in nutrients and a good source of energy”, he said.  Osifeso enjoined Nigerians to take advantage of this opportunity that guarantees farm ownership and management as believing smallholder farmers are the key to food security in Africa, since they hold large swaths of arable land and also constitute about 70% of the workforce on the continent. Contact Us: Add Or Call (+234)7000202000 https://greenhillsfarmstead.com/