A former Anambra State Governor, Peter Obi, has joined the Labour Party few days after dumping the main opposition party, Peoples Democratic Party, saying the party is the right platform that aligns with his aspiration. According to him, he had chosen a route that he considered to be in line with “our aspirations and my mantra of taking the country from consumption to production.” Obi, who is seeking to succeed the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), after the expiration of his regime in 2023, disclosed this in a series of tweets on his Twitter handle on Friday. He wrote, “I thank all Nigerians, especially our youths who have joined me in the mission of taking back and reuniting Nigeria. This project is yours and for the future of your children. I am just a facilitator. “Since I resigned from the PDP because of issues that are at variance with my persona and principles, I have consulted widely with various parties and personalities to ensure we do not complicate the route to our desired destination. “For me, the process of achieving our goal is as fundamental as what one will do thereafter. “Therefore, I have chosen a route that I consider to be in line with our aspirations and my mantra of taking the country from consumption to production; and that is the Labour Party which is synonymous with the people, workers, development, production, securing and uniting Nigerians as one family. “I invite all Nigerians to join me in taking back our country. Be assured that I’ll never let you down.” The presidential hopeful had Wednesday dumped the PDP in his bid to actualise his presidential ambition. The PUNCH had reported that Obi in a letter addressed to the National Chairman of the PDP, Senator Iyorchia Ayu, announced his resignation from the party despite purchasing the N40m PDP presidential forms. Justifying his decision, the new LP chieftain said recent developments within the PDP had made it impossible for him to continue in the presidential race under the platform. He, however, said he was happy to have contributed to the growth of the country through the PDP. Obi said, “I am writing to intimate you of my resignation from the Peoples Democratic Party, which was conveyed to the Chairman of Agulu Ward 2. Anaocha LGA Anambra, effective Friday, May 20, 2022. Consequently, I am by this letter informing you of my withdrawal from the PDP Presidential Primary. “It has been a great honour to contribute to nation-building efforts through our party. Unfortunately, recent developments within our party make it practically impossible to continue participating and making such constructive contributions. “Our national challenges are deep-seated and require that we each make profound sacrifices towards rescuing our country. My commitment to rescuing Nigeria remains firm, even if the route differs. “I wish to thank you personally for your graciousness and leadership. I wish you well and best of luck in the service of the country.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com