As a young girl, I hated walnuts but the narration changed when a relation of mine brought some from Ekiti State in 2002. I tasted one and I went on because it was cooked so well that at a bite, it almost melted like egg in my mouth. Having discovered that it is tastier when soft, I started buying them and I will make sure that I re-cook them to soften them. It is in season now. This week, I present to you walnuts, the nut that turns men to fathers. Let me encourage you on botanical names once again. African walnut is a common name for several African plants. It may refer to Coula edulis in the family Olacaceae, Lovoa trichilioides in the Meliaceae family, Tetracarpidium conophorum (or Plukenetia conophora) in the family Euphorbiaceae and Schotia brachypetala in the family Fabaceae. In this kind of situation, if you want to search for walnuts on Google, other plants, for example Lovoa trichilioides which is a timber species, yet called walnut, will pop up. Try to love botanical names as jaw-breaking as they are because common names given to plants can be confusing. Okay, let us get back to business. The walnut I will be talking about is Tetracarpidium conophorum or (Plukenetia conophora) which belongs to the family Euphorbiaceae.The Yoruba call it “Asala” or “Ausa,” it is Ukpa in Igbo.  Walnuts provide healthy fats, fibre, vitamins and minerals. They are rich in omega-3 fats and contain higher amounts of antioxidants than most other foods. The nuts are oil-bearing, yielding 48–60 per cent of light golden coloured oil. The oil is edible, although it is not suitable for frying or soap manufacture due to its quick drying potential. The seed can be ground into a powder and used with flour in making cakes.  Some of the benefits Rich in antioxidants: Walnuts are an excellent source of antioxidants that can help fight oxidative damage in the body including damage due to “bad” LDL cholesterol which promotes atherosclerosis. Super plant source of omega-3s: Omega-3 fat from plants, including walnuts, is called alpha-linolenic acid (ALA). It is an essential fat, meaning you have to get it from your diet. Walnuts are a good source of the plant form of omega-3 fat which may help reduce heart disease risk. May decrease inflammation: Several plant compounds and nutrients in walnuts may help decrease inflammation which is a key culprit in many chronic diseases. Promotes a healthy gut: Studies show that if your gut is rich in health-promoting bacteria and other microbes (your gut microbiota), you are more likely to have a healthy gut and good overall health.194 healthy adults ate 43 grams of walnuts every day for eight weeks, they had an increase in beneficial bacteria compared to a period of not eating walnuts. Reduces risks of some cancers: Test-tube, animal and human observational studies show that eating walnuts may reduce your risk of certain cancers including breast, prostate and colorectal cancers. Supports weight control: Though they are calorie-dense, you may not absorb all of the calories in walnuts. Additionally, they may even help you control appetite and hunger. In a well-controlled study in 10 obese people, drinking a smoothie made with about 48 grams of walnuts once a day for five days, there was decreased appetite and hunger, compared to a placebo drink equal in calories and nutrients. May help manage Type 2 diabetes and lower risk: Observational studies show that one reason walnuts are linked to a lower risk of type 2 diabetes is that they help control weight. In a controlled study in 100 people with type 2 diabetes, consuming one tablespoon of cold-pressed walnut oil a day for three months while continuing their usual diabetes medication and balanced diet, resulted in an eight per cent decrease in fasting blood sugar. Lowers blood pressure: Walnuts are a rich source of omega-3 fatty acids (alpha-linolenic acid) which have been shown to have a beneficial effect on cardiovascular health. Supports healthy aging: In an observational study over 18 years in more than 50,000 older women, scientists found that those with the healthiest diets had a 13 per cent lower risk of physical impairment. Walnuts were among the foods that made the strongest contribution to a healthy diet. Supports good brain function: Animal and test-tube studies found that the nutrients in walnuts, including polyunsaturated fat, polyphenols and vitamin E  may help reduce oxidative damage and inflammation in the brain. In a 10-month study of Alzheimer’s disease, mice fed 6–9 per cent of their calories as walnuts had significant improvements in learning skills, memory and anxiety reduction, compared to a walnut-free control group. Observational studies in older adults have linked eating walnuts to better brain function, including faster processing speed, more mental flexibility and better memory. Supports male reproductive health: Animal research show that eating walnuts may help protect sperm by reducing oxidative damage in their membranes.117 healthy young men included 75 grams of walnuts daily in their Western-style diet for three months, they had improved sperm shape, vitality and mobility compared to men not eating nuts. Improves blood fats: Regularly eating walnuts has been consistently shown to decrease cholesterol levels. For example, in a  study in 194 healthy adults, eating  43 grams of walnuts daily for eight weeks produced a five per cent decrease in total cholesterol, five per cent  decrease in LDL cholesterol and five per cent decrease in triglycerides compared to not eating walnuts. Sleep inducing capabilities: Walnuts contain a few compounds such as melatonin, serotonin and magnesium that can regulate sleep. They are a good source of the amino acid tryptophan, thus eating a walnut-rich snack an hour or two before bed could help you drift off to sleep more easily. Scientific studies In a study titled, “Tetracarpidium conophorum (African walnut) Seeds Protects Against Diabetes-Induced Liver Damage in Rats Treated with Streptozotocin,’’ by Ajilore et al, the results obtained in this study concluded that Tetracarpidium conophorum seeds have the potential to protect against liver damage associated with diabetes mellitus since it improves glycemic control and mitigates the generation of reactive oxygen species in hyperglycemic states. In a study titled, “Randomised Clinical Trial: Effect of Walnuts on Semen Parameters and Male Fertility,’’ by Robbins et al, this RCT demonstrated a beneficial effect of adding walnuts to the diet on sperm motility and morphology in men seeking care for infertility. Preliminary fertility data suggests walnuts may enhance the probability of pregnancy for men with male factor infertility. In a study titled, “Anti-inflammatory Activities of the Chloroform Extract of the Fruit of Tetracarpidium conophorum (Mull. Arg.) (Nigerian Walnuts),’’ by Olaniyi et al, the results showed that CEFTC at 400mg/kg possesses significant anti- inflammatory activity comparable to that of Diclofenac. This supports its use as a potent anti-inflammatory drug in herbal medicine. Whether it is Juglans nigra (which is native to North America), Juglans regia (English or Persian walnut, which is cultivated across Europe) or Tetracarpidium conophorum (Nigerian walnut) you are able to get, the truth is that walnuts are good for you. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com