Twenty-five-year-old accounting graduate of the Kwara State Polytechnic, Rukayat Akinola, whose details were reportedly used by a suspected hacker for mobilisation for the National Youth Service Corps programme tells TEMITOPE ADETUNJI how the incident has affected her Can you recount what happened? I graduated in 2021, I started the process of getting my certificate and because of that, I travelled from Oyo State, where I reside, to my school in Ilorin. I was told that something was wrong but that I would get it. I finally got my certificate in March 2022. I wanted to register for the NYSC programme, so I visited a cyber café close to my house for registration; I tried logging in with my details, which included my name and matriculation number. But I discovered that my details, including my name, and matriculation number were used to mobilise another person. The details revealed that the person was already using my details to serve in Oyo State. The impostor’s passport was on the document that carried my name and I sent the document to a friend. My friend helped me to identify the impostor as one Grace. I searched for Grace on Facebook and discovered it was the same person’s picture on the NYSC portal. Did you see your name? My name appeared but the phone number wasn’t mine. I noticed that the person used another email address instead of mine. My email address was probably changed. Did you enquire from the café operator what could have gone wrong? The café operator asked whether I gave out my details to some close friends. I was shocked because I didn’t give out my details to anyone as I just got my school certificate in March this year. It is really amazing because nobody knows my password. He later advised me to go to the students’ affairs unit at my school and lodge a complaint. I met an official there, who directed me to write a letter to the registrar indicating that someone was using my full name and matriculation number to serve at the NYSC camp in Oyo State. I wrote a letter to the school and I was called to explain my situation. I narrated my ordeal, but there hasn’t been a solution since then. They told me that the NYSC had not responded to the school’s letter and mails regarding my problem. I was only told that it would be sorted and advised to stay calm. I have been to Ilorin several times since it happened, but the school has not done anything about it. What exactly came to your mind when you saw that someone else had used your details? I was so speechless and confused that I burst into tears at that moment. I couldn’t think clearly. I was wondering how possible it was for someone to use my matriculation number. The operator of the café was just consoling me. He advised me to go and lodge a complaint in my school. He said crying would not solve the situation. What were your suspicions? I was just confused and dumbfounded, and was just wondering how all these were possible. Were you satisfied with the response you got from the NYSC? I didn’t even lodge the complaint with the NYSC directly, but I have a relative who works at the NYSC and she told me the problem was not from the agency, but my school, adding that the NYSC only worked with records provided by the school. So, I went back to my school and made them understand that the problem was from my school and not the NYSC. How did that make you feel? It is a worrisome situation that made me feel extremely down. I am only trying to make myself strong. It’s not been easy. I want to serve; I seriously need the NYSC certificate, because it has been requested at my place of work. What did your parents say when you told them? Although my dad is late, my mum also tried her best. We both went to my school in Ilorin. We even went to the mobilisation centre at Ogba in Ikeja, Lagos. She has been troubled as well. Can you describe how this has affected your physical and mental wellbeing? It actually made me see life from another perspective that anything can happen, especially in Nigeria. I am trying to be fine. Even when I don’t want to think about the situation, I still do. I am only trying so hard to put myself together and try to concentrate on other things. Your school later blamed the issue on a hacker. Did that come to you as a surprise? It came to me as a surprise but I still wonder how an account could be hacked without me exposing my details. Do you think you were targeted by the impostor? I can’t really explain the situation but the girl using my details to serve is aware of what she did. She has even changed her number because of what she did. The NYSC said you would be mobilised with the next batch. Do you think that will resolve the problem? Yes, it will definitely solve my problem. Mobilising me with the next batch is the absolute solution, because I need to go for service. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com