A governorship aspirant on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party in Ebonyi State, Ifeanyichukwuma Odii, has said his ambition to govern the state was anchored on God, who gives power, not on the ordering of man. He stated this at the PDP Secretariat Abakaliki, when he paid a courtesy call to the newly reinstated Chairman of the party, in the state, Barr Silas Onu, on Monday. He said if elected governor, he would focus on policies and programmes that will lift residents out of the shackles of poverty and suffering, adding, “When you create wealth, it will revolve around other sectors of the economy and even in the civil service”. He said, “I know my people and my people know me. This is in considering what I have been doing over the years. Check my pedigree and you will find that I have founded a foundation, which I have used to impact the lives of Ebonyins over the years. “And of course, Ebonyins know about my philanthropic gestures across the state. I have given shelter to over 100 persons in the state. You will also recall that I have given over 200 indigent students scholarships. And you are also aware of the grants I have given to over 200 persons. “Aside from all these, I have been touring around the state to really understand the need of the masses and that I have been doing with passion, with the intention of lifting many Ebonyins out of poverty. “This should tell us something that if I’m elected governor of Ebonyi State, I would be in a better position to access more funds, which I will channel to areas that will benefit our people. I believe so much in human capital development. “For me, everything about me is in the hands of God. I anchor my ambition on Him and He won’t let us down. This is because, with God, all things are possible. “I have said it before and I’m saying it again. I want to create wealth for our people. There is something that people must know. Each time you genuinely create wealth, it revolves around every sector of the economy, including the civil service. That’s what I’m going to do.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com