The President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), on Tuesday, left for Madrid, Spain on an official visit to Spanish President, Pedro Sanchez. Presidential spokesman, Femi Adesina, made this known in a statement titled, ‘President Buhari embarks on state visit to Spain’. The President’s trip to Spain occurred amid the presidential screening of the ruling All Progressives Congress in Abuja. Buhari had met with the party’s governors before his departure. Buhari was accompanied by the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Geoffrey Onyeama; Attorney General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami (SAN); Minister of Industry, Trade and Investment, Otunba Adeniyi Adebayo. Others in the President’s train include Minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed; Minister of Interior, Rauf Aregbesola; Minister of Youth and Sports Development, Sunday Dare; and the Minister of State for Health, Olorunnimbe Mamora. The National Security Adviser, Maj-Gen Babagana Monguno (rtd); Director-General, National Intelligence Agency, Amb. Ahmed Rufa’i Abubakar; and Chairman, Nigerians in Diaspora Commission, Abike Dabiri-Erewa, are also in the President’s delegation. During his engagements with both leaders, Adesina said, “the Nigerian President will discuss issues of mutual interest to both countries, which will expectedly result in the signing of Agreements and Memoranda of Understanding on a wide range of topics geared towards further enhancing the bilateral relations between the two nations. “Such areas include: Extradition and transfer of convicted persons, Mutual Legal Assistance, Cultural Matters, Cooperation towards fighting crime and enhancing security, as well as issues affecting dependants of diplomatic staff. “Also on the agenda are Cooperation on Energy, Trade and Investment, Transportation, Public Health and Sports Development.” Adesina said Buhari would be back in Nigeria on June 3. The PUNCH had earlier reported that the APC Presidential Screening Committee began sitting on Monday and is expected to end on Tuesday. The aspirants were screened by the Committee headed by a former National Chairman of the party, John Odigie-Oyegun and questioned on 10 key issues including their dual citizenship status. Some of those screened on Monday include former governor of Lagos State, Bola Tinubu; Governor Dave Umahi of Ebonyi State, his Jigawa State counterpart, Badaru Abubakar; the immediate past Minister of State for Education, Emeka Nwajiuba; Ondo-North lawmaker, Senator Ajayi Boroffice; Pastor Tunde Bakare and Mrs Uju Kennedy-Ohanenye. Those expected to be screened on Tuesday include Vice-President Yemi Osinbajo, ex-Minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi; amongst others. The APC had last week postponed its presidential primary to June 6 to 8. The primary was initially scheduled to hold between May 29 and 30 but it was shifted after the Independent National Electoral Commission extended the deadline for parties to submit the names of their candidates for the 2023 general election. Opposition Peoples Democratic Party had on Saturday announced former Vice-President Atiku Abubakar from Adamawa in the North-East as its presidential candidate while Nigerians await the ruling APC’s candidate, amid agitation for Southern Presidency. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com