The Nasarawa State House of Assembly, has approved the ceding of Dalhatu Araf Specialist Hospital, Lafia to the Federal Government to serve as the Federal University Teaching Hospital1, Lafia. Speaker of the House, Ibrahim Abdullahi, disclosed this during the House proceedings in Lafia on Monday after the Majority Leader, Tanko Tunga, read Governor Abdullahi Sule’s Request Letter for the Ceding of DASH to the Federal Government. “The Honourable Speaker is already aware of the concerted efforts being made by the Government and relevant stakeholders towards the establishment of the Federal University Teaching Hospital and its location in Lafia, the state capital,” Tunga said. He added, “The Hon. Speaker is also aware that in order to facilitate the establishment of the Teaching Hospital in Lafia, it became imperative for Government to consider the need to cede its premier tertiary health institution, the Dalhatu Araf Specialist Hospital for the purpose in view of the structure and available facilities therein to support such institution. “As you are aware, the Dalhatu Araf Specialist Hospital was established vide Nasarawa State Legal Notice No.8 of 2021. “The Hospital has the following facilities: Main hospital complex, School of Nursing and Midwifery, Nasarawa State Infectious Diseases, Diagnostics and Research Centre, Staff Quarters, Taimako Cancer Screening Centre, New Hospital complex and DASH Annex.” Speaker Abdullahi said that the establishment of the Federal University Teaching Hospital, Lafia, by the Federal Government would be a good development to the state. He said, “Apart from improving on the health and standard of living of our people, it will also create employment opportunities for our people and other Nigerians. “We have agreed and approved the request of His Excellency, Gov. Abdullahi Sule for the Ceding of the Dalhatu Araf Specialist Hospital to serve as Federal University Teaching Hospital, Lafia. “We have also agreed and approved that all assets and liabilities including personnel in the Dalhatu Araf Specialist Hospital being ceded to the Federal Government,” he said . The Speaker directed the Clerk of the House to communicate the House resolution to Governor Abdullahi Sule for his necessary action. Earlier, Hon Tanko Tunga, the Majority Leader who led the debate spoke extensively on the benefits that would be derived on the establishment of the teaching hospital in the state. Others who contributed, Honourables Mohammed Okpoku, Daniel Ogazi, David Maiyaki, Mohammed Muluku and Mohammed Alkali. Our Correspondent reports that the House commended Senator representing Nasarawa South Senatorial District at the National Assembly, Umaru Al-Makura for sponsoring the bill for the establishment of the teaching hospital, describing the development as a good omen for the state. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com