An hotel in Ibafo, in the Obafemi Owode Local Government Area of Ogun State, has been deserted after a dispute among suspected Internet fraudsters (aka Yahoo boys) led to the killing of a yet-to-be-identified soldier. Our correspondent had reported that the soldier was killed during a clash between the fraudsters. During a visit to the area on Wednesday, it was gathered that the incident happened in a hotel where one of the Yahoo boys lodged. A resident, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said, “Two suspected Yahoo boys had a deal and one of them made a lot of money. However, the one who made the money refused to share with the other one. That was the beginning of the crisis. One of them then went to call soldiers. As the fight was getting heated, a soldier accidentally opened fire and a bullet hit one of his colleagues.” PUNCH Metro observed that only the hotel manager and a few staff members were at the facility. A worker at the hotel, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said the incident created tension in the facility, adding that she took to her heels. She, however, noted that it was when she returned the following day that she discovered that a soldier had been killed. But the hotel manager denied that the incident happened on the premises and declined further comment. PUNCH Metro observed that normal activities had resumed at the Ibafo Market despite the tension generated by the incident the previous day. The spokesperson for the Nigerian Army, 81 Division, Major Olaniyi Osoba, said the incident would be investigated. “I have not been informed about the incident, but investigations will be conducted,” he said. The state Police Public Relations Officer, Abimbola Oyeyemi, had confirmed the incident to our correspondent. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com