Oluwafemi Kuti, a professor of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, working at Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile-Ife, Osun State, in this interview with BOLA BAMIGBOLA, calls for a national safe delivery Programme to end maternal death in Nigeria. You were very emotional while delivering your inaugural lecture, where you highlighted the travails of women during pregnancy and childbirth. You claimed many of them were maimed. Who is doing that to them? The pregnancy maimed them because they were mismanaged, not cared for, went to the wrong place, and the country didn’t care. Many have died, some women didn’t die, but they were maimed because they started licking urine after delivery. You also declared in the lecture titled: ‘That they will not labour in vain nor bear children doomed for misfortune: Efforts of an obstetrician and gynaecologist,’ that Nigeria has now become the global capital of maternal death. How did you arrive at this conclusion? This topic came because Nigeria is now the global capital of maternal death. We have the highest rate of maternal death in the whole world. I know many people don’t know this, and not only do they die, but even those who do not die are also maimed for doing their national assignment. What is the national assignment in carrying pregnancy? A woman getting pregnant is a national assignment. Men can’t get pregnant. That is the duty that God has given them. And so, we are trying to see how we can stop the death. In what practical ways can Nigeria reverse the trend? As an obstetrician that has practised for 30 years plus, we have done our best to end this. I am here today to tell you the efforts we have made and that of my senior colleagues and other older colleagues. Not only women are affected. We also have many babies dying from pregnancy complications. Even those who don’t die hardly do well by not fulfilling their potential. Why and how will they not fulfil their potential? In America, when you deliver in the hospital, you keep the records for 21 years because they know labour has a significant effect on the future development of that child. Some of the children may not do well in school. They may have cerebral palsy, they may have developmental problems, and they may have birth injuries. The women and children affected where they are mostly found, rural or urban areas, and is the problem social-class related? They are among us, and usually, they are in the villages. You are lucky that your own life has not suffered this problem. Even irrespective of social class, if anybody goes to the wrong place during pregnancy, she will die if it is mismanaged. Who and where are pregnancies mismanaged? Wherever you don’t have qualified midwives and obstetricians to look after a pregnant woman is the wrong place to deliver. The church is not the right place to deliver. Traditional birth attendant places are not the right places to deliver. What are the reasons you have identified that make women patronise these unqualified people? They (women) go to these wrong places because they cannot finance it. They don’t have money to pay qualified people. Two reasons which are found in my book are cost and religion. We have found that religion doesn’t have a significant impact again in a state where they completely care about the cost. They (women) can’t afford it, and you know when you can’t afford something, they can easily deceive you into going to another place. Let me tell you one secret about maternal pregnancy. Out of 10 pregnancies, only 2 will have problems. The people that should go to primary health care are those we know would not have problems. Everybody now goes for primary health care. When the primary health care provider says to go to the main hospital to deliver, they now go to the church or other places because of cost. They ended up suffering various degrees of problems there. We have what we call some complications of pregnancy. One is prolonged labour. A woman can labour for too long for so many reasons. The second is bleeding after delivery. These are things, at times, you can’t stop. Although we can’t stop it from happening, we can quickly address the problem if you are in the right place at the right time. India used to have the highest maternal rate globally, probably because of its population. But in 2015, Nigeria overtook them, and we had 53,000 deaths. When I went to India in 2017, I asked them how they did it? They told me that maternal care delivery had been made free. It is free, but they also give them money for coming to deliver in the hospital. In most western world communities, delivery is free. In Sweden, they usually send midwives to come and help you take care of your baby for 2 weeks when you deliver. With Nigeria’s economic realities, can the country afford to make delivery free? Of course, why not? It is just that we are not making it a priority. We are not saying they should give them (women) money but let delivery be free. Who do you think owns these babies? Their fathers? No. My parents were dead a long time ago. Who am l serving now? Government. When you travel abroad, what name do they give you? A Nigerian. So, that’s it. They (women carrying pregnancies) are on national assignment. Some say women have too many babies in Nigeria. How will you have domestic helpers if we don’t have too many babies? If everyone had one or two children like you and me; we would run into China’s same problem now. Looking at governments at different tiers having different priorities, is making delivery free practicable? Yes, the government should take absolute care of the bill. The women carrying pregnancies are on national assignment. It is like you sent soldiers to the war front; you say you are not caring for them. A woman who is pregnant is on the war front. Do you know how we greet them when a woman delivers a baby in Yoruba? Eku Ewu Omo. That is because we know she has just gone through the valley of the shadow of death. Who owns the baby? The country. It doesn’t cost much. All those we need to spend money on are just 20% of the entire population of pregnant women. Then how do you identify that 20% will need that special care? We can do that as obstetricians. If we do it, they will not come because they can’t afford it. Many of them will not come for a caesarean session because they can’t afford it. When we say ‘CS,’ they will say no, and will go elsewhere. They will die there. Apart from affordability, you also mentioned religion as one of the reasons pregnant women patronise unqualified people. What solutions will you proffer to that? Religion is a very powerful instrument that controls the mind. I am a Christian, and it is a personal relationship with God. But you see, like the Bible says, you see that if you know the truth, the truth will set you free. We want our women to know the truth. Even if you know the truth and cannot finance it, there is still a problem. There was a state in Nigeria some time ago, and I won’t mention the name. I worked in Ondo state when I came back from England between 1996 and 1999 before joining this university. When we say caesarean session, the women will go away. When the state then brought free medical service, the women called other people (in need of it) for the session. Did your studies reveal the region of the country where we have more cases of mismanaged pregnancies? Yes, absolutely. It varies across the country, but we are all Nigerians. We are all Nigerians in the North, South, West, and East. We don’t have to be sectional. Tell the government that they have to pay for delivery. You have also proposed a National Safe Delivery Programme that would involve interventions that would address direct obstetrics complications, which must be backed by enabling law to make it a national project. Does the country have enough workforces to do this despite the high migration rate of medical experts to other climes? This cannot be achieved in one day. We need to start from somewhere. Americans started it, and they got there. But what is happening now is that we are not starting anything. We should have a national programme to increase the number of midwives. No person touches a pregnant woman overseas unless you are either a midwife or an obstetrician. We can also do that in Nigeria. Government must also look after doctors. I went abroad, but I came back because of my passion for this country. I just felt I should come back. Nigeria paid my school fees, and I can’t be fraudulent. I am doing this for the women in the village. It is for the common human beings. I no longer give birth. My children may not give birth in Nigeria, but we must stop the death.    ,, Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com