The absence of the defence counsel in the suit challenging the use of sole administrators to administer the Niger Delta Development Commission, Ume Kalu (SAN), was on Tuesday stalled at a Federal High Court sitting in Yenagoa, Bayelsa State. Odighonin Adienbo had on behalf of the Wailing Women of Niger Delta, the Integrity Friends for Truth and Peace Initiative, and others filed the case before the court presided over by Justice Isa Dashen in December, 2021, opposing the appointment of sole administrators to run the NDDC. The Attorney-General of the Federation and NDDC are listed as first and second defendants in the suit marked FHC/YNG/CS/135/2021. According to the plaintiffs, the concept of sole administrator was alien and contrary to the NDDC Act, which provides for a constituted board made up of representatives of all states of the region, to manage the affairs of the commission. When the case was mentioned on Tuesday, a lawyer, Samuel Brisibe, told the court that he was mandated by counsel to the NDDC, Ume Kalu (SAN), to inform the court of his absence due to the cancellation of his flight. He, therefore, appealed to the court to adjourn the case to enable Kalu to personally argue the case as he (Brisibe) was not abreast of developments on the matter. Brisibe further said that he was only directed to notify the court of the reasons behind Kalu’s absence in court. However, the counsel to the plaintiffs, Goodness Onuoha, frowned at the reason given by Brisibe, adding that the defence counsel ought to have arrived in Yenagoa on Monday ahead of Tuesday’s scheduled hearing date. Onuoha urged the court to prevail on the defence to refrain from delaying the dispensation of justice. Justice Dashen, however, adjourned the suit to June 28 for continuation of hearing. He had in March 2022 directed the Attorney-General of the Federation to remove the NDDC from any ministry, including the Ministry of Niger Delta Affairs. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com