The Office of the Surveyor-General of the Federation (OSGoF) in Nigeria has said that it plans to produce a large-scale map of the entire country in partnership with Woolpert, a multinational company and its Nigerian partner company, Lordsfield Ltd. According to a statement signed by OSGoF’s head, Press and Public Relations, Abu Michael, the Surveyor-General of the Federation, Abudulganiyu Adebomehin, with some members of management, held a meeting with representatives of WOOLPERT and Lordsfield at the Survey House in Abuja to discuss modalities for the project. The statement said the new map was to provide the Federal Government a critical tool for effective decision-making in proffering solutions to the challenges of various operations, planning, designs and implementation of physical infrastructure and other developmental projects. It read in part, “The project is for the mapping of the nooks and crannies of the country, upgrading of facilities, and training of professionals for the Nigerian government.” According to Adebomehin, the project would remain an issue on the front burner until Nigeria was well mapped despite the challenges that might be posed by its funding. He added that no country in the world could resolve its challenges and develop without being properly mapped. The large-scale map, according to him, would show every area, number of houses, other infrastructures, and power and transmission lines for government to behold even at a glance for decisions and approvals of operations and projects. The SGoF thanked the companies for showing commitment towards helping the country achieve this and pledged the cooperation of his office on all agreements as deemed fit by the Nigerian government. In their separate statements, the Managing Director of LordsField, Oluropo Olajugba and WOOLPERT’s Programme Director, Cecilia Hattingh, and the Sales Director, Jannie Engelke, all stressed the importance of digital applications in every operation.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com