Abubakar Suleiman is the Speaker of the Bauchi State House of Assembly and Chairman, Conference of Speakers of State Legislatures of Nigeria. He spoke to ARMSTRONG BAKAM about the ongoing process for the review of the 1999 Constitution How prepared are the state Houses of Assembly for the consideration of the amendments made to the constitution as sent to you recently? I can say that the 36 state Houses of Assembly in the country are fully prepared. You must have heard that we held a meeting in Ibadan, the Oyo State capital, and there, we discussed the issue of the transmitted Constitution 5th Alteration Bill, 2022. So, I can tell you that all the assemblies are ready and are still getting ready to handle the ratification. Of all the amendments, which will you say are crucial to the Conference of Speakers? There is the financial autonomy of state Houses of Assembly, which we believe is an issue that the Houses of Assembly have to ratify. We also have the issues relating to local government autonomy, which is still lingering. There was an attempt in the fourth alteration but it couldn’t go through. This time, it is an area that the state Houses of Assembly will focus on and we’ll look at it and its merit and decide on it. At an event in Abuja in February, the conference pledged to support women representation in decision-making and the gender alterations in the amendment. What do you make of the non-approval of the gender bills by both chambers of the National Assembly? I don’t know but maybe being the chairman, who is a he-for-she award recipient and an advocate for women development and sustainability, is the reason why the Conference of Speakers of State Legislatures of Nigeria is in full support of gender inclusion in the constitution. However, after making a lot of commitments and promises to women groups in the country, most of the bills that affect gender issues did not scale through in the National Assembly. In our meeting in Ibadan, we said we would make a case for some issues that were expunged from the earlier proposals submitted to the Conference of Speakers. Perhaps, that issue of women inclusion may be considered or be referred back to the National Assembly for reconsideration. One issue that is dear to Nigerians is state police. It also didn’t make it during the voting. What will be your next step on this? This is one of the items that we singled out during our meeting in Ibadan. The conference frowned on the issue of state police, which is a very serious issue. I don’t know why the National Assembly and the Federal Government are kind of playing with it. You are aware of the issue of insecurity bedevilling every part of the country. I don’t think there is any state in the country that is not affected by this issue of insecurity. We only have the police and the Army, and they are both agencies of the Federal Government. State governors have no control over these security agencies. It is good to allow state governments to have their own policing structure in order to improve security in the various states. Definitely, this is an issue that we categorically mentioned and that we will request the National Assembly to reconsider so that it may scale through in the second phase of the alteration. But some people have expressed fears that some governors may use the establishment of state police as an opportunity to settle political scores. What do you think about this? That is not a good enough reason. You can’t throw away the baby with the bath water. State policing will help in addressing the problem of insecurity in the country. You don’t say because some governors will use it for political reasons then you won’t grant it to them. This is unfair to me; state policing should be allowed for the security of our people. When you addressed the Joint Senate and House of Representatives Ad Hoc Committees on the Review of the 1999 Constitution with Speakers of states assemblies in February, you said issues of restructuring, devolution of power, community and state policing were very important issues that should be captured in the amendment; all of these didn’t make it. How do you feel about it? We actually feel bad and we also believe that the alteration of the constitution is a progressive issue. If these issues didn’t go through in this fifth alteration, there will definitely be sixth and subsequent alterations. We will keep on pushing; we will keep on pressurising until we see that these issues are addressed. So, will the state assemblies go ahead to ratify these provisions? Well, you see, the constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, section 9 (2), only allows the state Assemblies to ratify, you cannot make input, you cannot make additions or subtractions, you can either vote yes or no and that is it. But I can assure you that inasmuch as state assemblies are there, they will continue to push for these issues because they are germane. Many Nigerians believe that the constitution itself is fraudulent because it was imposed on Nigerians by the military. Do you agree with those who said the nation needs a new constitution? The truth of the matter is that the 1999 Constitution was drafted by the military. A lot of people have this opinion, but to me, let us do this alteration and if those that have this opinion insist, we can go with their requests. Maybe the time will come when we may have a brand new constitution that will be written by the people, but for now, we should continue using this one that we have. For now, there is no time for us to write a brand new constitution. Many people, especially lawyers and the elite, believe that the constitution is at the root of Nigeria’s problems and that something needs to be done about it. Do you agree with that opinion? I don’t want to agree with this issue; the constitution cannot be the source of our problem. We know that our constitution solves a lot of problems in this country without which there would have been chaos everywhere. I believe in the constitution of this country, except for the alterations Many people believe that state assemblies are in the pockets of governors and they readily do the bidding of the executive despite the fact that the state legislatures are supposed to be independent, why the brazen submission by the assemblies to the executive? This is another opinion held by some people, who are only expressing it. State legislatures are not in the pockets of the executive. I consider the state legislatures and the executive as partners in progress. If there is a cordial relationship between the state legislatures and the executive, you will see development; in the absence of it, there won’t be development. How are you able to do things differently in Bauchi given that the majority of members of the House are in the opposition? It is not magic; it is just the cooperation of my colleagues, the members of the state House of Assembly. There is nothing other than that. It is just cooperation, the love for the state and the people. Once you put the people of the state ahead of personal interests, you’ll see cordiality. There’s no magic; I am just lucky to have members who just love the state, and members who have concern for the state. I don’t want to blow my trumpet; if it is magic, you will know; if it is my style of leadership, you will know. Whatever it is, you will know. Many states still tamper with the allocation to local governments, thereby violating extant provisions of the law, but state assemblies appear not to see anything wrong about it. Is there some connivance between the executive and legislature on this? For instance, in Bauchi State, majority of members of the Assembly are from a different political party other than that of the governor, and yet, everything is going on well, but you hear critics saying, ‘They are in the pocket of the executive’. It is not true. This harmonious relationship is very vital to the development of a state. This people who hold that opinion are people who want to always see the legislatures and the executives at loggerheads and it is at the expense of the masses and the state. So, I don’t believe that the legislatures are in the pockets of the executive. I know that in Bauchi State, there is no connivance. This fifth alteration will take care of everything; when the local governments are granted financial and administrative autonomy, then all these allegations will be addressed. There is an issue that most state assemblies have shied away from, which is the refusal of some states to conduct local government elections in clear violation of the constitution. This and many other issues have made people look down on state Assemblies as if they are only there to serve the executive. Are you concerned about this? As a lawmaker, I must be concerned because this is a clear violation of the constitution for a governor not to conduct local government elections. It is a clear violation of the laid down rules and regulations and I must be concerned. But thank God that with this fifth alteration, if that issue of financial and administrative autonomy scales through, then definitely, it will be a bygone issue. What do you think is the solution? The solution is to make sure that local government financial and administrative autonomies in the alterations are ratified by at least 24 state Houses of Assembly. One of the issues raised during your meeting in Ibadan was the deteriorating state of security in the country; you lamented how bad the situation is becoming. If you were to be President today, how will you address the security issues? I cannot directly criticise the President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. I know he is doing his best in addressing these issues, but somewhere, somehow, something is going on wrong. If today I am the President, I will sit with all the security chiefs to find out the way out of these issues. There must be a way out and a solution. Many Nigerians are very worried because nobody can travel to any part of the country freely. Since you are representatives of the people, they feel you should be able to say or do something to help in tackling these challenges. So what do you think is the problem? I don’t know what the problem is, but your observation is true. During our meeting in Ibadan recently, we lamented this issue and called on the Federal Government to go after these people (bandits and terrorists). I read in the news that one of the captives was released. Although they said no ransom was paid, I also learnt that he paid N100m as ransom. He was quoted as saying that there are a lot of other people still in captivity. So, we call on the Federal Government to go after these bandits with a view to securing the release of those in captivity, because it is a very worrisome issue. With the 2023 general elections around the corner, what will be your advice to fellow politicians because some of them are found of using money to buy the electorate and also sponsor thugs? All those using money, thugs or cultists are those who have underperformed in office because if you perform, you don’t need all these. What you did for your people will make them vote for you massively. Using money to buy voters during elections is against the Electoral Act of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. So, I call on all my colleagues and other politicians, who are preparing to engage in vote-buying and thuggery during the coming elections to please desist from such acts. Let us try and nurture this democracy. Using money to influence voters to vote for you is undemocratic; using thugs is also undemocratic. I call on all my colleagues and fellow politicians to desist from using money and thugs. And to the electorate, they should resist any attempt to buy them or influence them or even use them as thugs. I’ve heard politicians saying they will not do anything for their constituents and on the day of elections, they will go with money and buy votes from the electorate; it is wrong. Just do the needful and work for them and that will earn you votes from your people. The people should reject and resist any attempt by politicians to use money and thugs during elections. What will you consider as your greatest achievement as the Speaker of the Bauchi State House of Assembly and Chairman, Conference of Speakers of State Legislatures of Nigeria that posterity should remember you for? There are a lot of achievements but I don’t want to blow my own trumpet. But one thing I know I will be remembered for is the harmony between the legislative and the executive arms of government. The result of that is the development you see across the state. If the cordial relationship wasn’t there, I don’t think the people of Bauchi State would have benefitted from this present administration. As the Chairman, Conference of Speakers, there are also a lot of achievements. I was a Speaker under the previous chairman and I know he did his best during his tenure. The ability to at least bring Speakers together to discuss developmental issues is an achievement. Since my assumption of office, we have not missed our meetings. We’ve been meeting and we’ve been making progress and there are many achievements.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com