Ahead of the 2023 elections, presidential aspirant of the Peoples Democratic Party and publisher of Ovation International magazine, Chief Dele Momodu, has called on Nigerians to move away from career politicians who have failed repeatedly and embrace fresh faces with fresh ideas. He said he was prepared to serve and would hit the ground running from day one if elected. Speaking on Thursday during an interactive session with select media professionals, whom he described as members of his constituency, Momodu said Nigeria had been in perpetual crisis for decades because of lack of selfless, reasonable, visionary leadership. He said, “Most of the aspirants for presidency today can be encapsulated in that phrase ‘tested politicians’. Sadly, whilst our politicians may be tested and experienced, they have mainly failed in all spheres. Their experience is one of failure and mediocrity, and it is about time we moved away from these abysmally low standards and set higher and fresh qualitative standards and ideals for ourselves. “Indeed, majority of Nigerians are saying they want fresh faces with fresh ideas and refreshing ideals. That is where my candidacy is different and novel. I am that candidate who fulfills the yearnings and aspirations of Nigerians for a principled, talented, disciplined and visionary leader who is additionally imbued with integrity, resourcefulness and patriotism.” Speaking on what distinguishes him from others, he stated, “I have had solid theoretical and practical education, which has enabled me to acquire wide-ranging experience and exposure in the world of teaching, business, entertainment, lifestyle, advocacy, entrepreneurship, governance, networking, public speaking, academia, journalism, public relations, branding, tourism, information technology, foreign relations, hospitality, philanthropy and so on. “I believe I have accomplished a lot by successfully managing people and resources. The secret of my successes in different fields of human endeavours can be traced and ascribed to honesty, knowledge, discipline, humility, frugality, passion, comportment, charisma, affability, vision, audacity, tenacity, commitment, loyalty and implicit faith in God. “I’m proud to say I have taken time to plan and prepare for this journey, and I’m very ready to lead our nation out of the doldrums. I will be a ready president and Commander-in-Chief from day one.” On his programmes if elected into office, Momodu said he would diversify the economy, address the bureaucracy and sluggishness in the civil service, fix the power problem, overhaul the oil sector and rid it of corruption, explore Nigeria’s gas deposit and solid minerals sector and revamp the agricultural and industrial sectors for increased productivity, which he said would massively generate employment. He also promised to ensure the availability of credit facilities for housing, business ventures and other personal needs; prioristise education, including vocational education, and take advantage of advancement in technology. On how he plans to fight insurgency, Momodu said he would lay a solid foundation for peace and unity and do what was necessary for the military, police and restive unemployed youths. He added that modern, sophisticated and innovative measures would be deployed against the terrorists and that he would invest in the education, training and reorientation of the men and women of the armed forces, including insurance to give them hope and comfort. “Similar to packages for our Armed Forces, Our Police Force and intelligence officers will enjoy special wages and incentives, including insurance, free medicals and free education and regular training,” he noted. Speaking on the issue of consensus candidacy, Momodu said, “I honestly do not think the consensus approach to the selection of candidates is democratic, particularly where it is not voluntary but imposed or coerced. If at all, it should have happened before nomination forms were obtained at such exorbitant amounts.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com