A real estate development expert, Bisi Onasanya, has stressed the need for industry practitioners to embrace professionalism in the business. Onasanya was speaking while addressing newsmen at the company’s headquarters in Ikoyi, Lagos State. According to him, real estate practitioners must look beyond pecuniary gain and prioritise social responsibility by embracing industry’s best practices. He said, “We didn’t venture into The Address Homes to make money, even though every business is set out to make money. The real intention, for me, is to allow us to do something different from the way previous participants and players in real estate have done.” “We believe there is a need to inject some integrity into the real estate business. We also believe at times that quality was a bit deficient and there is a need to do things that meet international standards, irrespective of where you are.” Onasanya, who is the CEO of The Address Homes, said even though his firm specialised in luxury homes at highbrow settlements, much emphasis was also placed on factors such as integrity and affordability. “We wanted to come into the industry and put up structures that we can call homes, not houses. These are homes that will compete with the best that you can see outside of the country, and yet without making you break the bank in terms of being able to pay or affordability. “We see people trying to relocate from abroad – Canada, the United States of America (US) and Europe. There is a minimum standard of living they have been used to. When they enter a home, there are basic things they would like to see, including the environment. We found that these are missing, to some extent. We wanted a situation in which you live in the Address Homes and you are proud because of the little offer. That is what we believe in.” He also shed light on the company’s ongoing projects in Lagos, noting that for the purpose of thoroughness and integrity, every phase of the project was being subjected to regulatory approval before continuation to the next phase. “You will see some of our flagship projects, but two of our projects that are under construction now are the Luxuria on Alexandra Road in Ikoyi and Dan and Dan apartment on Banana Island. “We have a work plan. We also make sure that the plan does not emphasise more on the speed of finishing. It is a process; a quality assurance process is also involved and there are consultants (local and foreign) involved. We must sign on for every stage of the project and we would choose not to truncate any part of that. We are currently on the fourth floor in Luxuria. The approval that we have is for 14 floors and we are slow and steady but delivering a good quality job.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com