The main opposition, Peoples Democratic Party, on Thursday, described former President Umaru Yar’Adua as a beloved leader and exceptionally courageous and humble statesman who gave his all and died in the service of his fatherland. In a statement signed late Thursday by its National Publicity Secretary, Debo Ologunagba, the PDP said it “remembers with nostalgia the late President Umaru Yar’Adua (President of Nigeria, 2007-2010) who gave his all and died in the service of his fatherland. “Late President Yar’Adua was a beloved leader and exceptionally courageous, humble, honest, forthright and dependable statesman, whose legacies in stabilising our nation, particularly in instilling the Rule of Law, equity and peaceful co-existence in line with the manifesto of the PDP remain unparalleled. “He was an unrelenting advocate of the Rule of Law, who dignified the Office of the President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria by promptly executing Orders of Court in line with his Oath of Office, even when such Orders were not favourable to his interest or that of his Party.” It further described the late president as a detribalised Nigerian, an angel of peace who manifestly loved Nigerians without regard to ethnic, religious, class or political considerations and placed the peace, unity and wellbeing of the people above every other interest. In the statement titled ‘PDP extols late President Yar’Adua’s legacies,’ the party added that, “Despite his personal challenges, President Yar’Adua stood firm in the defence of truth, justice, fairness and laid a solid foundation for electoral reforms and credible elections in Nigeria. “His avowed commitment to the unity and peaceful co-existence of our nation is legendry through his Amnesty Programme, which brought relative peace to the then restive Niger Delta region of the country and set the nation on the path of social and economic sustainability. “Indeed, our nation will continue to miss late President Yar’Adua as a leader with a heart for the people as envisioned by our founding fathers. The PDP, in remembering late President Yar’Adua, urges Nigerians to insist on the Rule of Law and credible elections in our country by actively participating in the ongoing electoral process and voting en masse in the 2023 general election to rescue Nigeria from misrule.” The main opposition, therefore, saluted the widow of the late President and the entire Yar’Adua family for their courage and steadfastness in upholding the virtues, values and legacies of the departed President. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com