Some leaders and youths from Ibadan North Federal Constituency, on Wednesday, purchased the nomination and declaration of interest forms of the All Progressives Congress worth N10m for the lawmaker representing the constituency in the House of Representatives, Musiliu Akinremi. Spokesperson for the stakeholders, Shina Alabi, who spoke to journalists after purchasing the forms in Abuja, said they raised the N10m to appreciate the great achievements of Akinremi as their representative in the last four years. Alabi noted that the lawmaker specifically secured employments for many youths in several Federal Government bodies in the last three years. He said the beneficiaries agreed to compensate Akinremi by raising the N10m to purchase the forms to aid the lawmaker’s re-election to the House. He said, “I am here in company of the leaders of our party led by Hon. Akeeb Alarape, to buy the form for Hon Musiliu Akinremi, the member representing the Ibadan North Federal Constituency. “Unanimously, all the leaders, stakeholders and the youths in the federal constituency decided to contribute money and buy his form based on his outstanding performances in the last three years. We contributed money among ourselves to obtain nomination and expression of interest forms for him. “No fewer than 18 leaders and many of our youths raised the N10m because of our conviction that he had performed creditably well and that is why we asked him to continue his good works. He empowered many youths of the area by facilitating training programmes on various vocations which had never happened before. He also facilitated employment for youths at many federal agencies. There are some of our youths who now work at the Federal Roads Safety Commission, Nigerian Security and Civil Defence Corps, and the Directorate of State Services, among others.” Alabi said Akinremi had also renovated several primary and secondary schools in the area apart from introducing new primary health centres and the town hall that he built. He said, “The youths started the process of contributions and the leaders had to join them to complete the money with which we bought the form.” Akinremi’s Senior Legislative Aide, Tayo Adeyemi, said the lawmaker was not present to collect the forms from the stakeholders because “he is in Oyo State to meet all the aggrieved members of the APC in the state in order to dislodge the sitting government.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com