The Anambra State Government has condoled with Mr Jubril Ahmed, the widower of the slain mother of four, Harira, who was killed alongside her four children by yet-to-be-identified gunmen in the state. A statement by the Chief Press Secretary to the Governor, Christian Aburime, on Wednesday, indicated that the state governor, Chukwuma Soludo, sent a delegation that included the Commissioner for Information, Mr. Paul Nwosu; Commissioner for Women and Social Development, Mrs. Ify Obinabo, and others to meet with the bereaved family. The delegation met with Jubril at the Cattle market, Amansea. Nwosu, who conveyed the condolence message from the Governor and Ndi Anambra to the family of the departed, explained that it was not a targeted attack on a particular tribe or religion. He expressed shock on how a people could be killed in cold blood, noted that the governor could not attend because of some urgent security concerns he was attending to. He stressed that Ndigbo and other tribes have lived together for so long in peace and harmony, urging them to go about their lawful businesses. Obinabo stated that Anambra people are largely travellers who are receptive of people from other tribes, appealing to the gunmen to have a rethink for the sake of their unborn generation and stop killing fellow human beings as such doesn’t pay. The leader of Miyetti Allah in the South East, Mallam Gidado Sadiq, who described the incident as horrible, thanked the governor for sending the delegation, explaining that they have lost many people, stressing that many of their people are already travelling as a result of the incident. While pledging their readiness to continue working the government to enthrone peace in the state, Mallam Gidado noted that their people living and doing business in Anambra are aware that they are not the target recalling the lawmaker who was also killed in a gruesome manner. The deceased’s husband, Alhaji Jubril, lacked words to express himself, though the Sarkin Chamber of Anambra State, Usman Farang prayed that violence should stop. Chairman, Amansea Cattle market, Alhaji Bello Maigari; younger sister to the late woman, Suweiba Musa; as well as the Hausa Community in Amansea, were present during the visit. Alhaji Jubril works as a security guard in Anambra State. Before her death, Mrs Jibril was aged 32, while her four children: Fatima, Khadijah, Hadiza and Zaituna, were aged nine, seven, five and two respectively. An undisclosed cash donation was presented to the bereaved. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com