The Forum of Aggrieved All Progressives Congress Aspirants in Taraba State on Sunday alleged that no primary election was held in the state to elect candidates, especially into the state House of Assembly constituencies. Spokesperson of the aggrieved aspirants, Shittu Mohammed, who contested for the Nguroje State Constituency, at a press conference in Jalingo, on Sunday, called on the national secretariat of the party to conduct the election and select candidates for the forthcoming election in the interest of peace and fair play. Mohammed said if not addressed, the internal wrangling in the state chapter of the party will affect the party’s chances. According to him, no election was held in the state but rather results were written and sent to the national secretariat. He said, “There was no election in Taraba. We were told the electoral committee for Taraba were in the state, but we never saw them. We were all waiting in our various local governments to receive them for the conduct of the primaries and they did not show up anywhere. “We all waited without success and no election was held. We don’t know how the results emerged and some people were declared winners. “To the best of our knowledge, there was no election whatever in Taraba and any person parading himself as a candidate is only fooling him/herself.” While calling for the conduct of the primaries to elect candidates ahead of the 2023 elections, the aggrieved aspirants insisted that the electoral committee cannot impose anybody on the party in the state as a candidate for any position. Mohammed added, “We were told there is an appeal committee, but we don’t know where the committee is even sitting. “We need fair treatment and we want our issue to be addressed. The party has internal channels of resolving issues and we want the national secretariat to handle this issue with care before it is too late.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com