The forum of Chairmen of the South West Zone of the New Nigeria People’s Party has commended what it describes as the exceptional leadership roles of its vice presidential flag bearer, Olufemi Ajadi. It also commended Adebisi Olopoeyan and Dr T.K.O. Aluko, saying they like Ajadi, deserved commendation for support, guidance and ensuring the formidability of NNPP in the South West Region. This was contained in a communique signed by the Chairman of the forum, Olayinka Dada, JP, and Secretary, Pst. Peter Olagookun, which noted that the commendation came on Wednesday, May 25, at the end of its meeting held at Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. “[The] Forum appreciates the love and mobilisation efforts of Mr. Olufemi Ajadi in aspiring for the NNPP Presidential ticket and welcomes his decision to massively support the aspiration of Engr. Rabiu Musa Kwankwanso in emerging as the Presidential candidate of our great party the NNPP. “Forum congratulates all candidates on the platform of NNPP in the South West region and assures them of mass mobilisation for their victory at the polls”, the communique read in part. The forum also passed a vote of confidence on the National Working Committee of the NNPP and commended its presidential flag bearer, Musa Rabiu Kwankwaso, for his leadership. According to it, the NWC led by Prof. Rufai Alkali and all members of the National Executive Committee of NNPP had succeeded in positioning the party as the new bride of the Nigerian people. “Forum notes with satisfaction the growing acceptability of the NNPP across the country and attributed the growth to the strict execution of party programs and obeisance to rules and regulations. “Forum discussed challenges in state chapters and resolve to continue to engage stakeholders in the party in tackling them. Such challenges include mobility, campaign souvenirs, funding and sentiments being employed by tribal jingoists within the region in our quest to market the NNPP to our people,” the communique stated. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com