The United States Mission in Nigeria has selected 56 recipients for the 2022 edition of the Mandela Washington Fellowship. Additionally, the mission has selected 16 alumni from the MWF cohort from 2021 to participate in this year’s Alumni Enrichment Institute. Launched in 2014, the Mandela Washington Fellowship for Young African Leaders is the flagship exchange programme of the US government-sponsored Young African Leaders Initiative created to further the United States’ commitment to investing in the future of Africa. Each year, the US Missions across sub-Saharan Africa select accomplished leaders who have established records of promoting innovation and positive impact in their countries. A statement on Thursday by the US embassy in Abuja said this summer, the fellows would travel to the United States to participate in six-week leadership institutes studying business, civic engagement or public management at US colleges and universities. “After their programme, fellows will attend the annual Mandela Washington Fellowship Summit where fellows, US government officials and representatives from businesses and organisations with interest in Africa engage in high-level sessions and workshops. “After completing both the leadership programmes in the institutes and summit, fellows are eligible to participate in several MWF alumni opportunities, such as the A  EI that builds on the skills and connections developed during their summer exchange programme,” the statement noted. Since 2014, the mission said over 5,000 young leaders from every country in sub-Saharan Africa have participated in the MWF with 456 Fellows from Nigeria, adding that Nigeria remains the largest contributor of fellows each year. Commenting on the significance of the MWF, Amb Mary Leonard, stated, “The United States is dedicated to investing in the next generation of young Nigerian leaders, reinforcing the strong partnership between both nations.  The vision, courage, and drive to innovate by Mandela Washington Fellows will help shape the future of Nigeria for many generations to come.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com