THE Joint Action Committee of the Senior Staff Association of Nigerian Universities and the Non-Academic Staff Union of Educational and allied institutions have lamented the non-payment of the minimum wage arrears to its members in all Universities of Agriculture and other research institutes in the country. Last week, the Federal Government said it would pay about N34bn minimum wage consequential adjustments to education sector workers with effect from 2019. The beneficiaries include members of the striking Academic Staff Union of Universities and their counterparts in the polytechnics and colleges of education. Speaking in an interview with our correspondent on Tuesday, SSANU’s National President, Mr Ibrahim Mohammed, said bursars and registrars across universities had yet to receive the arrears, saying it was important their members were given their dues. He said, “SSANU acknowledges government for the commencement of payment of minimum wage arrears but all Universities of Agriculture have not been paid. Our members in FUNAB, Umudike, Makurdi have not received anything.” “Some of our members in other universities received just 50 per cent. It could be network, or from the bank but you will find out that some have received and some have not. “Our bursars and registrars have not been paid at all. We have drawn the attention of the government to it and they are working on it. We are urging government to give every member its dues these people are a sizable number. “The exercise is ongoing but slow, our members in research institutes, Universities of Agriculture have not received anything, UNIBEN, University of Port Harcourt, Gusau, all these schools have received just 50 per cent.” He added that the unions are still on strike but negotiating with the Federal Government. The PUNCH reports that ASUU insisted that its members would not resume work despite the FG’s payment of minimum wage arrears. This was contained in a circular by the University of Lagos branch of the union titled, ‘Payment of minimum wage arrears’. UNILAG-ASUU chairman, Dr Dele Ashiru described the arrears payment as “long-overdue”, saying that the core demands of ASUU had not been met.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com