Singer, Obiora Nwokolobia-Agu, aka Obiwon, has said his switch from secular to gospel music cannot be explained logically. In an interview with Sunday Scoop, he said, “Some things cannot really be explained naturally or logically, especially when it comes to faith. Along the line of my music career, I encountered Christ and that changed everything. “I answered a divine call to serve the Christian faith with the music (talent) I have been given. In that journey I have released a few albums and singles. My last album was in 2016. My new body work should be ready before the end of this year. The singer also noted that it was not easy for him to ‘penetrate’ the gospel music industry. He said, “It was definitely not easy for me. One can proffer a thousand reasons why it is so, but the bottom line is that I own my decisions, the calling I heard and answered. I have seen God’s amazing faithfulness and miraculous preservation despite all the challenges I have faced toeing this path. I am glad for the fruit that my experiences are producing and I’m confident of what this path holds for me and many in the near future. “At the right time, I will delve into details and projects that will guide and lift others who are contemplating or already on the same journey. I have felt like giving up a couple of times. But, God has a way of firing me up and getting me back on track when I think I can’t go any further. I am so grateful.” Expatiating on the statement he recently made about secular artistes who started off doing gospel music. He said, “My statement was to spark off conversations among fellow creatives who make art for the faith. We have to start thinking of those coming behind us and how we can encourage those who have a calling as we do to stick to it. “We do what we do because we have deep convictions that this is the best life and path for us, in line with the purpose of our existence. Beyond ourselves, we have seen what we do transform and heal individual lives, bring about positive moments and change in society. We have to encourage and mentor others who have such a leading to follow through.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com