Few days to the senatorial primary of the All Progressives Congress in Ondo State, a group under the auspices of the Victor Ategbole Campaign Council, has rejected the alleged plan to have a consensus candidate in the Akoko South-East /South-West Federal Constituency of the state. It was gathered that the leadership of the party and other stakeholders had allegedly agreed to have a consensus candidate at the primary in the federal constituency but the group said such an arrangement was unacceptable. This was contained in a statement by the Head, Media Management Victor Ategbole Campaign Council, Inumidun Jacobs, on Friday. The group urged the party leadership to provide a level playing field for all aspirants at the primary, declaring that it would not accept such an arrangement. The group stated, “It is imperative to note that at no time was our principal consulted or did he agree with anyone, whether in the party or those referred to as stakeholders or leaders of the party in Ondo North or anywhere else, to abandon his quest to represent the good people of our federal constituency by subscribing to some consensus arrangement. “What we know for a fact which cannot be denied is that there are very sinister, fraudulent and undemocratic steps by some people to unfairly favour an aspirant against others, particularly our principal who is considered as the candidate to beat in the election. “We are aware that delegates’ lists agreed upon at the various wards in the federal constituency have been tampered with or outrightly manipulated against other aspirants. We are also aware that the lists sent from the various wards in Akoko South East/Akoko South West were doctored inside the confines of the room of one of the aspirants in Akure by agents of those bent on foisting this unpopular candidate on our party in our federal constituency.” Copyright PUNCH All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com