Renowned Islamic cleric, Sheikh Dahiru Usman-Bauchi, on Wednesday said that he has been praying for the victory of Vice President Yemi Osinbajo in the presidential election promising to double his prayers. Osinbajo visited Bauchi State on Tuesday as part of his consultations with critical stakeholders across the country regarding his presidential ambition. He also met delegates of the All Progressives Congress in a bid to woo them to vote for him during the forthcoming convention of the party. The presidential aspirant in company with Senators Kabiru Gaiya (Kano Central) and Adamu Bulkachuwa (Bauchi North); former Bauchi State Governor, Mohammed Abubakar, among others, who paid homage to the Emir of Bauchi, Rilwan Adamu, at his Palace in Bauchi, also visited the tomb of Nigeria’s first and only Prime Minister, Tafawa Balewa, and thereafter visited the revered Islamic Cleric before meeting with the APC delegates. Usman-Bauchi expressed delight at the prospects of Osinbajo succeeding the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), adding that he would double his prayers for the success of the vice president’s aspiration. The religious leader said, “I will cherish this visit for a long time because I have finally met you after previous communication by phone. “I have been praying for you before now and now that you are running I will double up my prayer for you. All the things you have in mind God will grant you, we are going to support you so that when next you come here it would be as President of our country.” Earlier, Osinbajo thanked the cleric for the warm reception and commended him for his disposition to the unity of Nigeria. “I am happy to see you. You are someone I hold in very high esteem. The reason is that you have always been one of the strongest advocates for the unity of this country and for tolerance amongst all our religious faiths. “You are somebody who has preached peace and you motivate us all the time. I have listened to you several times and I must commend your courage,” he told the cleric. Osinbajo while informing the religious leader about his quest for the number one job in Nigeria, said, “we believe that the common man must be the centre of everything that we do and must have the opportunity to live their lives, have jobs, and we must provide those jobs. “I put myself forward to run as the presidential candidate of our party and as you know, I have been Vice President for the past seven years and God helping us for another one year until the expiration of our tenure. “During that period, I have had the privilege of serving under an open-hearted leader, President Muhammadu Buhari, who has made sure that I learn everything about governing a diverse country and a multi-ethnic and multi-religious country such as ours.” He solicited the support and prayers of the cleric to enable him to continue with the task of transforming the Nigerian economy. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com