Akwa Ibom State Governor, Udom Emmanuel, on Tuesday paid a visit to former President Olusegun Obasanjo at his residence in Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital, as part of the ongoing consultation of strategic stakeholders in the country regarding his presidential ambition. Emmanuel is a presidential aspirant on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party. The governor was accompanied by a member of the National Executive Committee of the PDP, Paul Ekpo; two members of the House of Representatives, Pat Ifon and Nsikak Ekong; and the Akwa Ibom State Commissioner for Information and Strategy, Ini Ememobong. According to a statement by the spokesperson of Udom Gabriel Emmanuel Presidential Council, Bola Bolawole, the governor, while informing Obasanjo of his presidential ambition, said some major issues plaguing Nigeria could be solved by a focused, sincere and capable leadership. He assured Obasanjo that if elected president, he would take practical steps to boost the economy and return the country to its glory days. The statement also quoted Obasanjo as saying that he has no doubt that the governor can fix Nigeria’s economy if given the opportunity. The former president was quoted as saying that, “Knowing you the way I do and the knowledge you possess, which you have expressed in your brief speech, I do not doubt that you will fix the economy of Nigeria if you have the opportunity. “Our country is complex but not a complicated country to govern. It needs the application of honesty, fairness, and justice. “I know that you are a man of conscience who fears God and will apply these guiding principles in your leadership. “You have shown what you can do for Nigeria by what you have done in your state. It is, therefore, logical that when the opportunity presents itself, you will bring what you have done in your state to bear on the larger community. “Your presidential bid is a fair and legitimate thing to ask for.”  All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com