A northern group, Arewa Youth Consultative Forum, has urged the Independent National Electoral Commission to consider tinkering with the election timetable and extend the conduct of party primaries ahead of the 2023 general election. The group noted that the call became imperative in view of the increasing tension across the country occasioned by banditry, Academic Staff Union of Univesities strike, among others. The PUNCH reported that on February 26, INEC released the Timetable and Schedule of Activities of the 2023 General Election. The Commission provided for parties to conduct their primaries for the nomination of candidates from April 5 to  June 3, 2022. However, the National President of the AYCF, Yerima Shetima, in a statement in Kaduna on Sunday, insisted that current happenings across the country was enough reason for INEC to extend the conducts of party primaries. According to him, holding party primaries across many states of the Fedreration (North and South) at the moment may not be feasible because of the growing tensions everywhere, adding that there was the planned nationwide students’ protests in solidarity with ASUU. “And media reports suggest that the Christian Association of Nigeria has directed all the state chapters of the religious body to embark on nationwide street protests over the death of a female student accused of blasphemy in Sokoto State, culminating in the imposition of a 24-hour curfew. “The massive killing of non-indigene traders by gunmen in the South-East and attacks on government facilities have not abated,” he added. Against this background, the AYCF, therefore, urge “the Independent National Electoral Commission to reconsider the announced date, or at best, stagger the primaries based on security and intelligence information from the various states, especially in well-known flashpoints of violence and arson. “We urge the security and intelligence service to guide INEC on the safest places to conduct primaries without endangering the lives of innocent voters. “Most importantly, life is so valuable that we cannot afford to sacrifice it on the grounds of discharging our civic duties. Ordinarily, only people who are alive can vote and voted for. “We made these suggestions in the interest of safe and peaceful conduct of the primaries across Nigeria, as we hopefully prepare for successful 2023 general election.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com