People of God, Please can you observe what I’ve observed in the 10-year-old in the midst of a sex tape? Has anyone seen the picture of the boy who was the girl’s partner-in-sin anywhere or heard anything from/about his parents? The Diggers Association even went a step further to dig out the photos of her mother and cast aspersions on her saying she was pretending in her video! Lord have mercy!!! I thank God she was all covered up otherwise it would have been worse! I imagine how the girl’s father will forever blame her mum for not looking after her adequately- after all he’s been the one working so hard to take care of their needs! All I see is an uninformed woman who out of confusion was pushed to subject herself and her daughter to an open disgrace otherwise after watching that video all she needed to do was ask God for mercy for her parental ineptitude and seek for counselling on how to restore that child’s sanity and get her on the right path! What point am I trying to make, if you don’t go out of your way to protect your daughters from a tender age, they’ll suffer greatly in the hands of a hostile and wicked society! Have you noticed that most people think this girl knows what she was doing? HOW COULD SHE??? On the other hand, can you imagine how wonderful and glorious she would have turned out if her creativity and talents were channelled into something positive judging from her dance videos??? In Africa, a bad child would always belong to the mother! Parents…parents…mothers…your daughters desperately need you much more than before! They can’t handle the pressures of the world! They’re much too exposed and unduly influenced by their peers and they’re forever seeking validation! You need to let them know they don’t need the world’s validation! You must groom them and make them feel like stars and indeed they can stand out and shine like stars no matter the rave of the moment and no matter your living condition/financial status! Detoxify their minds of sex, boyfriends, nudity, make-up etc at a young age! Get into their space every now and then, choke them with love and attention, you will always get to know what they’re up to- SOME HOW! Let them be God-conscious, get God into their souls, pray with them always, let them be possessed by the Holy Spirit- that is what will pull them back from temptation when you aren’t there! Ensure your home is charged with the power of God and come and watch what amazing giant you’d make out of your daughter in a crazy world like this! But then can you give what you don’t have or possess? Many girls would rather pamper their looks today than face their studies or develop their spirituality and believe me most times behind them is a fashion-conscious woman who doesn’t emphasise on their grades or the need to be godly! Or is it a father who’s a serial adulterer who will transmit the spirit of God into his offspring? I’m sorry a lot of children are already lost! Angels at home and helpless whores and devils at school. But do they know what they’re doing? You don’t know what’s cooking up in your daughter’s life- your sons as well until you intentionally overshadow their lives and ensure what should be a wonderful wonder in your hands and your future compensation doesn’t end up a national disgrace or a liability some day! Wake up! Wake up!! Wake up!!! And be more alert! Your children need you more than ever before! Our society will never protect your girls and the situation is going to get worse! Start teaching them life skills such as problem-solving, creative and critical thinking, self-discipline, self-control, coping in times of stress and inadequacy, coping with our emotions, self-awareness and assertiveness etc. There’s so much more on this! May the institution under construction under your roof not be reduced to mere rubble by strangers. I invite you to follow me on Facebook –TEMILOLU OKEOWO Instagram @Okeowotemilolu Are you still engaging in pre-marital sex? Each act devalues you! Your wonders are waiting to start. God is waiting for you to become a secondary virgin! You are most welcome on board the chastity campaign train and Girls Club is open for all girls and ladies. Please text your name, age, school or occupation and state of domicile to 07086620576. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com