Former Super Eagles midfielder, Mutiu Adepoju, in this interview with EBENEZER BAJELA, talks about his best moment as a footballer, life on retirement, why he is nicknamed Headmaster and more How has life been since you quit football? Generally, life has been good and I thank God, even though initially it wasn’t easy. It was a bit hard for me, watching football on television and no weekend to play football, which was what I was used to for years. Now, I realise I can’t do it again other than to watch and just appreciate it. It can lead to depression if one isn’t careful and know how to adapt. Nevertheless, I was able to manage it, move on and do something else like the coaching course, football administration courses and so many others. Do you sometimes feel like going back to the pitch? I always feel like, especially the first year after my retirement. It was very difficult, but I still went out to play football with friends when I was still in Spain back then. I wanted to continue feeling like a footballer and I would get onto the pitch at every opportunity, until I returned to Nigeria. After attending three World Cups with the Eagles, how did you feel watching the team fail to qualify for this year’s edition? It was very bad that we failed to qualify because we are used to always having Nigeria at the World Cup, except the 2006 edition. I’m going to miss the Eagles at the tournament. Not going to the World Cup is going to hurt every Nigerian because we all wanted to watch them play; it’s a difficult reality to accept. Football has always made us feel this way, but I think we just have to accept it this time around. The Eagles haven’t been able to live up to expectations in recent times. What do you think is responsible? It’s very hard to say this is what has been responsible for their poor performance. I won’t say the players are not capable or not committed because we have a lot of very good players doing very well in their various clubs. I think it has to do with a lot of factors, and one can’t say this is the major one, but our failure to qualify for the World Cup is as a result of things we didn’t do right. You were a member of the NFF Technical Committee. What was the experience like serving at that level? It’s a good experience, we used to have periodic meetings, where we brainstorm and review the performance of the team and give advice. Recently it hasn’t been like that because the last physical meeting we had was in January 2019. It’s been an online meeting ever since then and we had one before the Nations Cup and another after the World Cup qualifiers. But I must say it has been a good experience, with what I’ve been able to garner and also a great privilege. You were a member of the Flying Eagles squad at the 1989 U-20 World Cup. Can you recall the Miracle of Damman, when the team came from four goals down to beat USSR? I think it had never happened before then. It earned us a place in the Guinness Book of Records. It was a very good experience and it’s not something you get to see always because we never expected to make the comeback, not to talk of winning the game. When we returned for the second half, we said to ourselves, ‘let’s see how we can reduce the deficit.’ We were not thinking of winning, but when the third goal came in, we had the energy to go for the fourth goal and even win the game. We knew each other very well because most of us were in the Nigerian league and had been together for like two years before the tournament. We knew what we were capable of because we all had our areas of specialty: for instance we had Christopher Ohenhen, who was good at setpieces, Dimeji Lawal, a very good dribbler and Christopher Nwosu. When Ohenhen scored the third goal from setpiece, we immediately had the confidence that we could do it. Before then, everyone thought it was over and we just wanted to score one or two goals, so we don’t go home with such heavy defeat. The two goals from Ohenhen gave us the vitamin needed to complete the comeback. Sam Elijah got the third goal and I gave the pass to Nduka Ugbade for the equaliser, before going on to win the game on penalties. A debut game is always one to cherish. Can you recall your first match for the Eagles? My first game for the Super Eagles was in Lagos against Togo in 1990 and we beat them 3-0. Though I was unable to get on the score sheet, I played a crucial role in that game. This is a game I will never forget because it was a dream come true. You featured at three World Cups. Which fond memories do you have of them and which was your best? I will start with the 1994 World Cup because I played an important role in the qualifiers and I was almost unstoppable. At the World Cup, I played a substitute role but I have fond memories because it was our first World Cup. At France ’98, I was more involved in the team and scored against Spain. You scored a wonderful header against Spain at the ‘98 World Cup. How do you feel 24 years after? Anytime I remember that goal or I see the video I always have a very good feeling. I was playing in Spain during this period with Real Sociedad and playing against them (Spain) and even scoring made it feel so special. What was the reception in Spain like after you returned from the tournament? There wasn’t any problem because I was received very well at Sociedad not because I scored against Spain, but because I had a very good tournament personally. I was loved by the club, but in the other places people asked why I scored against Spain, though these were said jokingly and not with bad intentions. You were nicknamed Headmaster because of your ability to score goals with your head. Was it something you learnt in training? I think it had been in me for so many years, even as a kid. I only improved on it when I started professional football. Right from when I was in primary school I loved to use my head even when the ball was very strong. I was never afraid to nod it and they used to call me ‘coconut head’ because of my ability to put my head in any shot even when my mates tried to dodge it. Since then, I knew I had the ability to use my head very well, but I developed the gift and during matches my teammates always tried to put the ball on my head because they knew I was very good with my head. Who is the toughest player you played against? I have played against so many great players but if I’m to pick the toughest player I faced in Africa, I think that will be Rigobert Song from Cameroon. He was a very tough guy. What were your best and worst moments in football? My time at the U-20 was one of my best moments because I see it as my developmental stage. Then between 1992 and 1998 I also had a lot of fond memories and moments with the senior national team. It’s hard to point out any worst moment because football is a continuous process and your best in each game is what the result shows. For me, I always put in my best even if the results don’t go my way. That’s why I will say I don’t have a moment to regret during my days playing football. Who was your best teammate? Talking about my best teammates, I have so many of them that we connect together. Personally, I get along very well with people and in the national team I will say I am friend with everybody but when Ike Shorunmu joined the team we became very good friends, also with the late Rashidi Yekini, Emmanuel Amuneke, Finidi George, Ben Iroha, you can name many of them because I connect very well with everybody How did your family cope with your busy schedule as a footballer? My family knew what my job was and the sacrifice it took. They also knew that is what put food on our table and they were able to cope very well with my busy schedule. Though, it was tough because they always wanted me to be around but they knew the job was also important. I tried to make up by spending much time with them whenever I was at home.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com