The Lagos State chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party has expressed optimism that its forthcoming primary elections will be successful. The state chairman of the party, Philip Aivoji, said this in an interview with journalists shortly after the party moved into its new office complex in Ikeja, Lagos. Aivoji said the party was conscious of the need for a more spacious office for its various activities. He assured members that efforts are ongoing to ensure the new party secretariat is fitted with latest communication gadgets to enable workers to work effectively to realise the party’s dream of taking over Lagos State from the All Progressives Congress. The state chairman, in his remarks on the party’s preparations ahead of the party’s primary elections, disclosed that in spite of the ongoing works at the new secretariat, all staff and state executive council members had moved into the office for the various activities aimed at ensuring the success of the party’s forthcoming primaries. Aivoji, lauded the party’s executive council members for acquiring the office at the right time, adding that the new office was not only spacious, but more dignifying of the party’s status. He stated, “As you can see, we are putting finishing touches to our preparations for the primaries and a series of meetings are equally being held here. “Since the opening of the new party secretariat, the office had been agog with visits by several groups to identify with the party’s new success story. “A lot of our leaders and members have been here to express their admiration for the new party secretariat, which has been described as a state-of-the-art edifice befitting a foremost party in the state such as ours and we are happy for this new development.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com