Popular hip-pop artiste, Olamide Adedeji, also known as ‘Baddo’ has advised pupils of Command Children School, Ikeja, Lagos, to be hard-working, have mentors, and be focused on their studies. Speaking on Thursday, at the itel Nigeria 2022 Children’s Day party which took place at the Command Children School, Ikeja, Olamide, who is also the itel brand ambassador told the pupils to dream big and should not let their environment hold them down. He said, ‘‘I am a kid from the corner that chose not to let his environment decide what he becomes. Through hard work, dedication, and prayers you can achieve greatness. You can become what you want to become without allowing your background to affect you. It is good to get yourself a mentor. Make sure you are focused. To some people, success is power, money, and education, everyone here should be able to have one of these things. Success is a function of the mind. Never be pressured, always put in your best.’’ itel Marketing Manager for West Africa, Oke Umurhohwo, said, “Children’s Day is an annual day set aside to celebrate our children, the leaders, pacesetters, and stars of tomorrow. It is because of them that we chose to begin the Love Always On initiative, and it is because of them we will continue to give back to society. Our children deserve to be celebrated and supported in every possible way because the future belongs to them.’ ‘‘It is exciting to see how itel has incorporated sustainable development goals into its core business strategies, making it a brand that doesn’t just provide smartphones and appliances for everyone, but also a brand that cares deeply for the needs of its consumers and society at large. With itel, love is always on.’’ itel donated mobile libraries, textbooks, school bags, and other educational materials to the pupils. Head Teacher, Mr Abdulrazak Jimoh appreciated itel for its kind gesture. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com