The Nigerian Institute of Estate Surveyors and Valuers has said over 80 per cent of lands in Nigeria do not have certificates of occupancy and cannot be used for any form of financial transaction. They added that incessant cases of collapsed buildings in the country was a result of the non-engagement of core professionals in the built industry. The President and Chairman of the Council of NIESV, Emmanuel Wike, said this while speaking to journalists at the institute’s maiden Valuation Day themed, ‘unlocking the nation’s wealth through valuation’ in Port Harcourt, Rivers State on Wednesday. According to the NIESV president, most of the lands in Nigeria are dead capital, as they cannot be used for anything since they do not have title documents, which is Certificates of Occupancy. He said, “It is only in Nigeria that we have 80percent of lands not titled with C of O and cannot be used for any financial transaction and until we unlock the potentials of our lands, it will be very difficult for us to use.” Wike stated that a robust collaboration between the NIESV, other professionals in the built industry, and the Federal Government regulator would put an end to building collapses in the nation. According to him, there are over eight professional bodies in the built industry. He said, “When you have a building collapse, it means that some of the resources used for that particular construction have gone. “So, you need an estate surveyor and valuer to actually come to carry out the valuation of the development’ that the investor has carried out.” Wike added that the valuation day would be marked with free valuation services for Nigerians who do not have the funds to afford the services of estate surveyors and valuers. He stated, “Yes, we are now carrying this advocacy to let people know that there is a colossal loss of investment when there is a building collapse, and we don’t need that. “So, people should be able to consult professionals from the design to the construction and to the use of that particular structure. Our advice is that both the professionals and the regulatory body of the government should work together for the benefit of society. “This will reduce it (building collapse) because as professionals we will ensure that round pegs are put in round holes.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com