A Federal High Court in Abuja on Thursday stopped the Independent National Electoral Commission from recognising or accepting Adhoc delegates produced by Governor Godwin Obaseki’s led faction of the Peoples Democratic Party in Edo State. But the faction said it had appealed the judgment. The court declared the ad hoc delegates produced by Dan Orbih’s faction of the party as authentic and said they must be recognised and accepted. Delivering judgment in a suit instituted by 581 delegates elected on April 30, Justice Inyang Ekwo held that the PDP and other defendants in the suit are bound by Section 84 (5) of the Electoral Act, 2022 as well as Section 15 of the PDP Constitution relating to delegate elections. The 581 delegates instituted the suit marked FHC/Abj/ CS/598/2022 through their five representatives, Monday Osagie, Reuben Ekhosuehi, Adeyanba Osaro, Magdalene Osawe and Imariabe Oghogho. The PDP, its chairman, Dr Iyorchia Ayu, Senator Samuel Anyanwu, Umar Bature and INEC are the first to fifth defendants. The plaintiffs in the suit argued by Dr John Musa (SAN) had asked the court to determine whether the PDP, in view of Section 84 (5) of the Electoral Act, 2022 and Section 15 of the PDP Constitution, can jettison their election monitored by INEC for another one conducted in violation of the provisions of the relevant laws. They also asked the court to determine whether the defendants can on their own jettison the authentic delegates for others whose purported election is unknown to any law. Delivering his judgment, Justice Ekwo agreed with the plaintiffs that they are validly and legally elected as authentic adhoc delegates for Edo State chapter of the PDP. Justice Ekwo, therefore, issued an order of injunction against the first to fourth defendants, restraining them from tampering with the plaintiffs’ list having been duly elected in the congress of the party held on April 30. The state chapter of the PDP has however appealed the judgment. In a statement, the state Chairman, Dr. Anthony Aziegbemi, urged delegates to remain calm as the party has appealed the judgment at the appellate court. He said, “Our attention has been drawn to an Abuja High Court ruling regarding the conduct of the Edo State PDP congresses. “We call on all candidates that emerged from the exercise to remain calm as the party has appealed the judgment at the appellate court.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com