Vice President Yemi Osinbajo has expressed optimism about the All Progressives Congress’ chances of winning the 2023 presidential election. He said this after being screened by the APC Presidential Screening Panel on Tuesday. Osinbajo, who spoke with newsmen shortly after emerging from the screening, said the exercise was fruitful and He said, “We were able to discuss several issues; issues of national and party concerns; and it went very well indeed; we had a very good chat. “Of course, we are ahead of any party; way ahead, APC is ahead.” Apart from Osinbajo and former Lagos State Governor, Bola Tinubu, other aspirants are the Senate President Ahmad Lawan and former ministers Rotimi Amaechi, Ogbonnaya Onu, Godswill Akpabio, and Chukwuemeka Nwajiuba. Serving governors who are also aspiring to be president are Kayode Fayemi (Ekiti), Yahaya Bello (Kogi), Dave Umahi (Ebonyi), Ben Ayade (Cross River) and Badaru Abubakar (Jigawa). Others are former Senate President Ken Nnamani, former House of Representatives Speaker, Dimeji Bankole, and serving senators Ibikunle Amosun, Ajayi Boroffice, and Rochas Okorocha. President Muhammadu Buhari’s running mate in 2011, Pastor Tunde Bakare, Uju Ken-Ohanenye, Nicholas Felix, Ahmad Rufai Sani, Tein Jack-Rich, Ikeobasi Mokelu are also expected to face the party’s presidential screening panel. Earlier, Buhari met behind closed doors with members of the Progressives Governors Forum at the Presidential Villa, Abuja, on Tuesday. However, Vice-President Osinbajo was absent from the meeting. Osinbajo, who concluded his interactive sessions with stakeholders and delegates of the APC in the 36 states and the FCT ahead of the party’s presidential primary on May 26, declared his intention to contest the 2023 presidential election on April 11, 2022. “I believe that the very reason the Almighty God gave me these experiences, these insights, and these opportunities, is that they must be put to the use of our country and its great people,” Osinbajo had said in his declaration speech. Osinbajo then began the interactive sessions with the delegates in Ibadan, Oyo State, on April 22. At each of those interactions with stakeholders and delegates from the 36 states and the FCT, Osinbajo had robust question-and-answer sessions while also discussing and exchanging ideas. During the interactive sessions, Osinbajo fielded questions from stakeholders on various national issues. The issues include security, economy, technology, education, health, youth, women empowerment, social investments and exchanged ideas on issues of national development, governance and politics. At the end of each interactive session, the vice president took time to personally share moments with all the delegates and stakeholders while taking photographs with every one of them individually. During the visits across the country, he also paid courtesy calls at the palaces of traditional rulers, meeting with many of the traditional councils in the respective states. The APC Special Convention for the presidential primary comes up on May 29. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com