The President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), has said the maiden visit of the United Nations Secretary-General, Antonio Guterres, to Nigeria has shown that the world has not forgotten Nigeria. This is just as Guterres said the United Nations had called for an additional $351m as part of the overall $1.1bn for the humanitarian response plan for Nigeria. Appreciating the visit, Buhari said Nigeria remained grateful to the UN and some world leaders for their steadfast partnership in fighting terrorism, noting that the spotlight on Russia and Ukraine could easily distract from other pertinent global challenges. This is as he noted that terrorism remained a threat to global peace, security and progress, with many already killed, while millions had been displaced by insurgents over many years. According to a statement by the Special Adviser to the President on Media and Publicity, Femi Adesina, Buhari said this when he received Guterres at the Presidential Villa in Abuja, on Wednesday. The statement read in part, “When we assumed office, the North-East was the major security problem we inherited in 2015, but we have been able to make people understand that you cannot kill people and shout ‘Allahu Akbar,’ (God is great!). “It is either you don’t know what you are saying or you are simply stupid. God is a God of justice, so you cannot kill people and say God is great. Luckily the people understood our message and it has made great impact.” Adesina said Buhari informed the UN Secretary-General of the government’s effort to ensure that citizens return to their farms, businesses and other pursuits in life. On his part, Guterres spoke of his Tuesday visit to Borno State plagued by insurgency, saying he saw a departure from the pictures of hopelessness and despair painted, adding that people exuded hope. “Yesterday, I visited Maiduguri where the United Nations is supporting the internally displaced. I was deeply moved by their stories and struggles. “These include the struggles with hunger, with the World Food Programme projecting 4.1 million people in the North East region of Nigeria to be food insecure in the upcoming lean season,’’ he said. Guterres said the United Nations had called for an additional $351m as part of the overall $1.1bn for the humanitarian response plan for Nigeria. The UN chief added, “But despite all they have seen and endured, the people I met remain hopeful and committed to returning to their communities and resuming their lives. To that end, I welcome the establishment of the Presidential Committee on the Repatriation, Returns and Resettlement of Displaced Persons in the North East. “This spirit of hope amidst hardship – and solidarity in struggle – was also at the centre of my discussions with the Presidency today.” Guterres also had discussions with the President on groundwork to ensure peaceful and democratic elections next year – and the full participation of Nigerian women and young people. Addressing journalists, the UN chief said measures to address security challenges in the country, Lake Chad and Sahel were discussed, including the UN Integrated Strategy for the Sahel. Bring terrorism perpetrators to justice, UN chief tells FG The UN Chief, after laying a wreath in honour of the victims of the terrorist attack at the UN House, in Abuja on August 26, 2011, which killed 23 UN staff and civilians and injured 16 others, said perpetrators of terrorism in Nigeria must be brought to justice. He disclosed that the UN is adopting a victim-centred approach to tackling the menace in the country. Guterres’ admonition is against the backdrop of the de-radicalisation programme of the Federal Government which has resulted in pardon for scores of former Boko Haram fighters. He said, “On that tragic day (August 26, 2011) an appalling terrorist attack on the UN House left 23 UN employees and civilians dead and 16 injured. Those staff members who lost their lives are heroes who proudly served Nigerians through the UN organisations. “We encourage all Nigerians who have endured similar violence in their own communities. In our victim-centred approach, perpetrators must be held accountable. We remain steadfast in our commitment for a peaceful Nigeria and for all people.” Meanwhile, the leader of the Yoruba Self-Determination Group, Ilana Omo Oodua, Prof Banji Akintoye, has said the visit of the UN chief to Nigeria will be in vain if he fails to visit the South and Middle-Belt of the country to see the criminality of terrorists in those regions. He said Guterres should make his visit meaningful, impactful and worth the while by seeing facts on the ground and not fiction packaged for him to see by the present regime. Akintoye also urged the UN Secretary-General to resist attempts by the Buhari regime to pull the wool over his eyes, sell him dummies and lead him by the nose in the wrong direction. This was contained in a statement he signed and made available to journalists by his communications manager, Mr Maxwell Adeleye. Akintoye said, “The Buhari administration has started misinforming the UN chief by preventing him from meeting the right people and from going to the right places. He is being shielded from the truth and from reality on the ground. “He is being deceived not to see the atrocities and deceit of the Buhari administration. At the eleventh hour, Guterres’s itinerary has been amended to divert him from the theatres of atrocious bestiality of killers, murderers, Fulani terrorists, herders and kidnappers that the Buhari administration has treated with kid gloves. “The pedigree, antecedents, spoken words and body language of Buhari as a person supports the evil being perpetrated by his kinsmen against the people of the South and Middle-Belt of Nigeria. “The policies and politics of his administration give a fillip to the same. Buhari is the reason why Nigeria is on fire. In a supposed democracy, Buhari’s government is the government of the Fulani by the Fulani and for the Fulani. “Interestingly, the Fulani are a minuscular ethnic group of a few million people in a country of over 200 million people of diverse ethnic nationalities. Interestingly, too, the Fulani are not autochthonous to Nigeria. Their history is as recent as the 19th century whereas the other nationalities have inhabited the political space called Nigeria from the beginning of time.” “The coming of Buhari and his nepotistic tendencies, his ‘Fulanisation agenda’, and his contempt for the fundamental and inalienable rights of other Nigerian ethnic nationalities is why the country may explode in his face sooner than later. “This is why we, the Yoruba, after deaf ears have been turned to our cries for justice, equity and fairness in a country we call ours, have decided to opt-out of Nigeria and form our own Oodua or Yoruba nation.” “The list is endless. And the atrocities have not abated. The Buhari administration refuses to allow the victims arm and defend themselves whereas the murderers are allowed to roam about with AK-47 looting, raping, maiming, and killing. “Your Excellency must speak with the right people who will paint the correct picture of our parlous situation: a parlous and debt-ridden economy; restive and restless youths; collapsed educational system, hyperinflation, runaway unemployment, insecurity, corruption never before witnessed in this country, and a country divided than even during its civil war period.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com