The Governor of Gombe State, Muhammadu Yahaya, has been declared the All Progressives Congress’ candidate for the 2023 governorship election. Yahaya was elected by 563 delegates through voice votes, on Thursday, following his unopposed status. Speaking on the process, the state Returning Officer for the primary poll, Danjuma Dabo, explained that five delegates were elected across 114 wards of the 11 Local Government Areas of the state, but due to various challenges, only 563 were ratified instead of 570. The returning officer added that the governor has proven himself by securing the votes of the entire delegates without any dissenting voice. Dabo said, “You have just been affirmed through voice votes, without dissenting voice, as the governorship candidate of the All Progressives Congress in Gombe State. “By the power conferred on me, I hereby announce Governor Muhammadu Inuwa Yahaya as (the) candidate of the All Progressives Congress for the 2023 election.” Responding, Yahaya lauded the delegates for the trust in his leadership, while promising to consolidate on the ongoing infrastructure development. “I thank the president for standing firm in this hard time and in providing good leadership. Together with you we shall work and fight to come back to Gombe government house. “I’m convinced that the people are supportive; I will like to assure everyone, especially the delegates, that their support will not go in vain. I thank you all for this profound opportunity. With you all, we stand to conquer. No-shaking! No-shaking,” Yahaya said. Our correspondent reports that the highly attended primary election, which was organised in a crowded conference centre, had attendants, including some delegates standing as they rejoiced about their choice of candidate. With the emergence of Yahaya of the All Progressives Congress, the Peoples Democratic Party’s Muhammad Barde would square up with him for the 2023 governorship election, as the last time they met was during 2019 primary election in the APC. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com