The faction of the All Progressives Congress in Bauchi State loyal to the Minister of Education, Adamu Adamu, has promised to deliver all the votes of its delegates to the National Leader of the party, Bola Tinubu, at the party’s presidential primary. The chairman of the faction, Babayo Aliyu, stated this in a welcome address when Tinubu, one of the 28 APC presidential aspirants, visited delegates of the party at Hazibal Hotels and Suites late Wednesday. He told Tinubu that even if he had not come to meet with the delegates in the state to woo them for votes, all their votes were already meant for him, assuring that they would remain forever with anyone who remained with them. Aliyu said, “All the delegates are yours, it is only traditional that you come to Bauchi, but even if you didn’t come to Bauchi, I assure you that all the votes of the delegates are yours because you laid the foundation. “We, Bauchi, are promising people, whoever is with us, we will remain with him forever. I wish you good luck.” The PUNCH reports that upon his arrival in the state, Tinubu went straight to pay homage to the Emir of Bauchi, Alhaji Rilwan Adamu, in his palace before he also went to visit renowned Islamic cleric, Sheikh Dahiru Usman-Bauchi. He later held a meeting with some Islamic clerics at the Gwallaga Central Mosque and then to the Hazibal Hotel and Suites where he met with the APC delegates. Addressing the delegates, the two-term Lagos State Governor told them that he had the capacity, quality, and brilliance to govern the country, adding that he would give priority to education, security, agriculture, and power generation. “I am one of those running for the office of the President of Nigeria and with your support, I am very sure, I will win,” he said. “I’ve demonstrated my capacity, quality, and brilliance in governance in Lagos. I’ve been a very successful private sector person who worked for Exon Mobil as Auditor-General, became the treasurer, and joined politics, this is not a small thing. “I want to serve my country, nothing more, nothing less. I want Nigeria to change the education of our children, security of lives and property, giving priority to those items. Then, helping the farmers bring commodity exchange, help those who are extremely poor, give priority to education, and give priority to power generation so that we can have industrial growth. These are what I am for, I’m not like the rest of them. I’m a serious-minded man. “Those who might have known Lagos then and those who know Lagos now will testify that it is a different nation within a country, it’s a state of aquatic splendor. To all of you, I don’t have to sell too much of myself, I have a very good name recognition. I brought the party (APC) together, to be one party that is united and determined to build a nation of great people. We are not poor by all means, we can bring prosperity to Nigeria with brain and thoughts. “You know me, I don’t break promises, I reward talents, our reward system for hard work will change, you will participate in the government, you will take the benefit of your labour, you will be part of our success, let’s work together.” Also speaking, a former Speaker of the House of Representatives, Yakubu Dogara, and a member representing the Dass/Tafawa Balewa/Bogoro constituency charged the delegates to give their votes to Tinubu during the presidential primary. He said, “If we want to develop our oil potential, this is our president. If we want to end the menace of school children dropout that Bauchi is the highest in Nigeria, this is our president. If we want to turn Steyr, Steyr can be revived and turned into a huge military-industrial complex especially now that we are at war everywhere, we can churn out machines like before and the glory of Steyr can come back employing hundreds if not thousands of our children if we want that, this is our president.” Some of those on Tinubu’s entourage included former Borno State Governor, Kashim Shetima; immediate past Chairman, Tertiary Education Trust Fund, Kashim Imam; former presidential aide, Ya’u Darazo and James Falake. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com