The first set of questions is for Professor Ibrahim Maqari, the Deputy Chief Imam of the National Mosque in Abuja. I understand that your scholarship is in Islamic studies and linguistics. The latter discipline suggests a broad-minded person who is well versed in the diversity of cultures and the importance of being accommodating. Yet you rationalised the gruesome event in which apparently radicalised Muslim youth set upon Deborah Samuel, a Christian girl, ostensibly for blasphemy. “It should be known to everyone that we the Muslims have some redlines beyond which MUST NOT be crossed,” you tweeted. “The dignity of the Prophet (PBUH) is at the forefront of the redlines.” So, Professor Maqari, bear with me as I ask a few questions? Do you regard Nigeria as a theocracy, a country governed by religious tenets? If so, which religion has the right of way to impose its tenets? Will you find it acceptable if Christian youths murder and burn Muslims for crossing the redline on Christian theology? Deborah Samuel and those who murdered her were students of the Shehu Shagari College of Education. How do you think Shagari would have reacted had he been alive to see an institution named in his honour engage in such an inhumane act in the name of Islam? For that matter, you are well aware that it is a college of education, not an almajirai school, correct? Sheikh DhikrullahShafi’I, the Grand Mufti of the Conference of Islamic Organisations, emphatically condemned Deborah’s killing, saying it is un-Islamic. So did Saidu Maccido, the secretary to the Sokoto Sultanate council, who called on the police to bring the perpetrators to justice. Would you say they are not sufficiently versed in the tenets of Islam? In any case, should we assume that as a cleric and professor of Islamic studies, you teach students where the redline is and what to do to those who cross it? In that case, if a similar incident happens in the Abuja area — let’s hope not — will it be reasonable to hold you responsible? By the way, Christians used to hold the Inquisition during which people suspected of heresy were tried and often sentenced to death. That practice was expunged from the doctrine hundreds of years ago because it is inconsistent with the humane essence of Christianity? Do you disagree with Muslim leaders who say that Deborah’s killing is similarly inconsistent with Muslim values? These are just questions, Professor Maqari. As a scholar you know that they are the first step in research and reflection. While on Deborah, how about a question for Atiku Abubakar, the former vice president and current presidential candidate. You initially tweeted a strong condemnation of Deborah’s killers. Yet when a group warned that the tweet would hurt your presidential ambition, you reportedly quickly took it down. Why? Do you place politics over principles? In the late 1990s, you were a part of the Peoples Democratic Party leadership that instituted the policy of zoning the presidency. Now you reject zoning — by word and action. Should Nigerians begin to wonder whether you are a man of your convictions? Now to Nasir el-Rufai, the governor of Kaduna State. Recently, members of your inner circle lobbied Bola Tinubu to make you his vice presidential candidate if selected as the All Progressives Congress’ flagbearer. Their argument — gasp! — was that the position is necessary to keep you in Nigeria, that otherwise you plan to leave for another country at the end of your tenure as governor? The normal thing to do is to first ask you whether this is true. I’m skipping that courtesy, however, because the fellows spoke credibly, with the authority of insiders. So, I ask instead, why do you plan to leave Nigeria? Do you know some pending calamity that the rest of us don’t know? In other words, should the Nigerian masses join you and leave the country to the politicians? You’ve always been an outspoken person. Please don’t stop now. Talking of knowing what we don’t know, what does Tinubu know? He often speaks as if he has the APC nomination (perhaps, even the presidential election) wrapped up. Recently, he chided his APC competitors by saying he doesn’t know where they are running to. Get the pun? When incumbents speak this way, it is invariably an indication that they have compromised the electoral process in their favour. But you are not an incumbent, so what’s the basis of this brashness? In any case, don’t you think you’re being condescending to your rivals, including Vice President Yemi Osinbajo? Are you truly disdainful toward them or is this just campaign bluster? These questions take on heightened relevance in the context of a video that was circulated on social media early this month. In the video filmed in a Niger Delta creek, some young men in what looks like locally-made speedboats militantly vowed their allegiance to Tinubu. They claimed to represent all the riverine states from Akwa Ibom and Bayelsa to Ondo and Delta. “The person we wan work for, (who) will deliver for the coastal line na the person of Ahmed Bola Tinubu,” the spokesman says as he points a gun menacingly. “Na’im we wan work for. No other person. We go deliver. If Asiwaju leads, we go follow.” Those words are followed with a militant chant in Izon before the boats speed away into a narrower creek. Mr Tinubu, you have to excuse me if you have addressed this matter before. I am just not aware. That granted, my questions are: Are you aware of this group, and if so, have you dissociated your candidacy from them and their brand of democracy? If you’re not aware of them, will you investigate their origin? Young Ijaw men may spontaneously stage such an event on behalf of a native son, such as Jonathan. It is improbable that they would do it for a candidate of a different ethnicity without being sponsored. Now to Nigerian voters. What do you think of candidates who have switched from party to party multiple times? Doesn’t that fact alone raise questions about their motive? It is one thing to switch one time. It is another to go back and forth. I would rather not name names. Lastly, a challenge to all presidential candidates who are not from the South-East. Can you look at yourself in the mirror—with a Bible or Quran in one hand—and say that deep inside you do not realise that—as a matter of equity, justice, and national cohesion — the presidency should be rotated to the South-East in 2023? Remember you are holding a Holy book in your hand. I will sit back now and wait for answers. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com