The Rivers State Police Command said its operatives have been deployed in Afam and Oloko communities in the Oyigbo and Tai Local Government Areas of the state, respectively, following the killing of a pastor, Abraham Yorka. The state Commissioner of Police, Friday Eboka, who disclosed this on the telephone while answering questions from our correspondent, said the police had a lead on one of those behind the attack on the Oloko community last Thursday. Yorka was reportedly shot dead by gunmen believed to be members of a local vigilante group who invaded the Oloko community in Tai LGA, shooting sporadically and burning houses. A resident of the Oloko community, Monday Pitt, had told journalists that the attack took place when youths of the community went for lunch after working on their farmland which bordered Afam. “We were clearing our road from Oloko to Afam. Some women were on the farm working. Suddenly, we heard the women shouting from the other side. “I asked what was happening; we saw these people with different rifles shooting. I was with my motorcycle. So I left it and ran. Those boys burnt it to ashes, shot people, machete people, and burnt houses. “Some corpses are there. Some of our people are still missing. We discovered one corpse for now. Others are missing,” he stated. Eboka, who confirmed that the incident was reported to the command on Saturday, said, “Yes, it was reported this evening that some people came from Oyigbo LGA. I don’t know if they have a previous problem. “They claim it is OSPAC (a vigilante group) that shot the pastor, who is now late. I have sent my men to the two communities to ensure no reprisal. So, we have taken charge of the situation. “We now know one of them. We will go after him and get him to find out what actually happened,” Eboka stated. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com