THE Lagos State Government has sensitised students to the negative impact of noise pollution on health and the quality of life. The General Manager of the Lagos State Environmental Protection Agency, Dr Dolapo Fasawe, in a statement made available to journalists on Tuesday, noted that there is the need for urgent action to curb noise pollution. Fasawe was quoted to have said this during an awareness event held at Agindingbi Junior and Senior Grammar School Ikeja, to commemorate the 2022 International Noise Awareness Day. She said, “This year’s edition has been tagged, ‘Keep the noise down, for a serene learning environment’ and LASEPA’s objective is to improve the awareness on the need to control noise in the city and educate students about the harmful effects of noise pollution. “This is why the agency, in collaboration with audiologists, is focused on identifying, assessing and managing disorders of hearing and balance of other neural systems. Findings from tests conducted over time have shown so much need for urgent action by the state government. “Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu is concerned about the negative impact of noise on both the hearing and general wellbeing of the citizens, particularly students who are leaders of tomorrow. As the state government continues to promote hearing protection and celebrate the importance of quietness, let us join hands with the present administration to achieve a ‘noiseless Lagos’ and a smart city that is serene and calm for all.” Fasawe explained that the school advocacy on noise pollution became important because it is one of the leading public complaint received by the agency daily. “Long-term exposure to noise causes hearing loss, which is detrimental to human health and noise pollution remains the major leading public complaint received by LASEPA daily, ranging from infractions from religious activities, commercial and entertainment industry, dog barking, generators, and classroom noise amongst others,” she added.  All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com