The Rescue Nigeria Mission, a political movement canvassing support for Governor Yahaya Bello of Kogi State to be President in 2023, on Saturday, said the governor would not step down for any aspirant ahead of the All Progressives Congress primaries. The National Coordinator of RNM, Abdullahi Damati, during a rally in Abuja to drum support for Bello, said the governor would not disappoint his supporters for any reason. According to Damati, the Nigerian youth are ready to cast their votes for Bello in 2023 as they hope he would clinch the APC presidential ticket. “We are a group of Nigerian youths that cut across the 36 states of the federation. We are over 15 million, waiting for the day of the election to cast our votes for Yahaya Bello,” Damati said. When asked if Bello would step down for another aspirant, he said, “There is nothing like that at all because Yahaya Bello is a man of his words. All Nigerian youths are with him. Over 20 million youth are ready for him. I don’t think he will ever disappoint them at any time for any reason.” While expressing hope that Yahaya Bello would win the APC ticket to contest in 2023, Damati said other aspirants giving money to delegates were merely throwing their money away. “We are very hopeful and have the support of all the party stalwarts. Those who are going around sharing money are doing that at their own risk. “All Nigerian youth have shown clearly that they want Yahaya Bello to become the President in 2023. This event is happening in the 36 states of the federation. So Yahaya Bello stands a better chance to win the primaries,” he said. Similarly, a group of youths, on Saturday, reportedly held nationwide rallies across 23 states in solidarity with Bello. According to a statement, participants chanted solidarity songs while carrying various placards in support of Bello from as early as 9am in all the locations. The youths, who said they had mobilised over 16 million active holders of Permanent Voter Cards to actualise a Yahaya Bello presidency come 2023, noted that the nationwide rally was to demonstrate that they meant business and would go all out for their own in the forthcoming elections. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com