The wife of the Lagos State, Mrs Ibijoke Sanwo-Olu, has promised to collaborate with the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency and other stakeholders in the war against drug abuse in schools and communities across the state. She said drug addiction, especially among the youth, had become worrisome and no one can pretend about its existence. According to a statement signed by the Assistant Director, Public Affairs, Office of Lagos State First Lady, Olubukonla Nwonah, on Thursday, Mrs Sanwo-Olu made this known on Wednesday at a strategic meeting with the NDLEA and other critical stakeholders, held at Lagos House, Ikeja. She was quoted as saying, “The earlier we begin to tackle the daunting challenge, the better for our youths, ourselves, and the social health of our society. This strategic meeting is aimed at putting the menace of drug abuse and associated social vices on the front burner. “We are truly and deeply concerned about the increase in the rate at which the younger ones are now getting addicted to illicit drugs, a development that brought about the need for all relevant stakeholders to embark on a campaign to fight the menace and enlighten victims on the dangers inherent in such lifestyle both now and in the future.” She added that the time was ripe for real action to tackle the war against drug abuse, and not just mere rhetoric, adding that in the coming weeks, she would be leading a series of initiatives to advance the fight against the menace in schools and in communities across the state. “At the level of the Nigerian Governors’ Wives Forum, we are all concerned about this and we have resolved in our respective states to frontally confront the menace, looking at it from a holistic point of view,” she said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com