The Nigeria Customs Service has concluded plans to redeploy the suspended electronic valuation policy for imported vehicles on Friday, it has been learnt. The policy, also known as Vehicle Inspection Number, has been generating controversy since its introduction some months back. Clearing agents and other maritime stakeholders had staged protests in the wake of the introduction of the e-valuation policy, a development that forced the government to suspend its implementation. Among other things, clearing agents claimed that the e-valuation system came with a sharp increase in duty paid on imported vehicles However, the Nigeria Customs Service in a letter dated May 17, 2022, said the suspended policy would be re-introduced on Friday, May 20, 2022. As such, the agency said there would be a sensitisation programme for stakeholders in the clearance chain in preparation for the redeployment. The letter was signed by the Deputy Controller, Administration, Nigeria Customs Service, A.Y. Odusanya, on behalf of the Customs Area Controller in charge of the Apapa Command of the service, Yusuf Malanta. The letter reads in parts, “In line with the planned nationwide deployment of the VIN Valuation on Friday, 20 May 2022, and the need to continually enhance the platform for optimal performance and service delivery, the sensitisation which is scheduled to take place on Thursday, May 19, 2022, at 11:00am is to hold at the Apapa Command conference hall. The Deputy Controller Administration, A Y. Odusanya, on behalf of the Customs Area Controller requested that clearing agents should send their representatives to attend, saying the session would benefit everyone and further clarify any question” Stakeholders in the vehicles clearing chain are expected to react to the development on Thursday. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com