The Benue State Council of Traditional Rulers has said that dialogue and negotiation were the keys to tackling the lingering crises between farmers and herders in the state. They also advised the Benue State government to “fast-track the adoption of the bill for the establishment of the Benue Peace Commission, which is before the Benue State House of Assembly.” The monarchs made the observation in a communique issued after a three-day training exercise on mediation and negotiation in Abuja organised by the Centre for Humanitarian Dialogue, supported by Germany and facilitated by the Clingendael Institute. The communique signed by the Tor Tiv, Professor James Ayatse; Och’Idoma and Paramount Ruler of Idoma, Dr Elaigwu John and 13 others was obtained by journalists in Abuja on Monday. They explained that negotiation was important in de-escalating violence among feuding parties in Benue State. Participants who were drawn from the three senatorial districts comprised the First Class and Second Class Chiefs. The monarchs said, “Having gained the in-depth skills on mediation and negotiation, the Benue State Traditional Council and the trained traditional rulers now commit to: “Cascade the skills gained to other colleagues towards de-escalation of violence and litigations in our jurisdictions and report back within a reasonable period of time. “Constitute an all-inclusive Traditional Council Mediation and Negotiation Committee that can be mobilised to any area of Benue State to be charged with quick response to conflict threats in line with the strategies acquired from this training, through government support and intervention. “Advise the Benue State Government to fast-track the adoption of the bill for the establishment of the Benue Peace Commission, which is before the Benue State House of Assembly. “Improve in coordination among us especially in the area of information and knowledge sharing.” They appreciated the Benue State Governor, Samuel Ortom, for his support to the traditional council and the traditional institution in the state. “We are also grateful for his support for this training, including the presence of his Special Adviser on Local Government and Chieftaincy Affairs during the training. “Through these efforts, Benue State has the singular honour of having all its senior traditional rulers trained and certified as mediators and negotiators. In the coming days, our communities will experience the full impact of this training,” they said. The Traditional rulers commended the Centre for Humanitarian Dialogue for its unique bottom-top, inclusive and sensitive approach to dialogue and mediation. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com