Ondo State Governor and Chairman of the Southern Governors’ Forum on Friday lambasted the Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria, Godwin Emefiele, for his brazen act of running for the 2023 Presidency whilst in office. Akeredolu, a Senior Advocate of Nigeria, declared Emefiele’s action as odd and one that constituted illegality. The Ondo governor noted strongly that Emefiele must quit his role as CBN governor else the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd), must remove him forthwith.
Emefiele, 60, has been CBN governor since 2014. He reportedly picked the N100m presidential nomination and expression of interest forms of the All Progressives Congress on Friday. Banners and advert materials of the CBN governor had been in public domain while his support groups have been mobilising for him across the country, holding conferences and rallies. In a statement he personally signed on Friday night, Akeredolu condemned the action of Emefiele who also reportedly visited Buhari in Aso Villa on Friday to inform the President of his 2023 presidential ambition. Akeredolu’s statement was titled, ‘The CBN Governor Must Disengage Forthwith’. It read, “The news of the purchase of Declaration of Intent and Nomination Forms to contest for the office of the President in the forthcoming general elections, on the platform of the All Progressives Congress, purportedly by the supporters of the Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria, Mr Godwin Emefiele, has been received with palpable disbelief and shock by many Nigerians. This act, if unchecked, timeously, portends great danger to the fragile economy of the country. “Rumours had been rife on the subterranean partisan activities linked to him through these shadowy characters in the recent weeks. Pictures of branded vehicles, ostensibly purchased for electioneering campaigns, were also posted on the social media. The audacious moves by those who claimed to be supporting this interest have been unsettling. “This latest news confirms that the Governor may indeed be interested in immersing himself in the murky waters of politics like any other Nigerian with partisan interests. It is incontrovertible that Mr Emefiele enjoys a constitutionally protected right to belong to any group or association and participate fully, just as any Nigerian. “It is, however, difficult to imagine that a person who occupies the exalted and sensitive office of the Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria will be this brazen in actualizing his ambition. “There is no gain asserting the obvious. The combined effect of the Public Service Rules, CBN Act and the 1999 Constitution, as amended, exposes not only the oddity inherent in this brash exercise of presumed right to associate. “It also confirms the illegality of the act should he proceed to submit the forms while occupying the seat as Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria. “Consequently, we admonish Mr Emefiele to leave the office, immediately, for him to pursue his interest. He cannot combine partisan politics with the very delicate assignment of his office. Should he refuse to quit, it becomes incumbent on the President and Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces to remove him forthwith. “This is a joke taken too far.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com