Election season gives you an insight into the truth that there is a beaucoup of money in Nigeria! Election time reinforces the fact that the country is a vineyard of cash-stacked bullion vans. Too much money in a country where there is too much hunger and poverty. One hundred million naira is like cheap cowry shells you can pick off some beaches on Lagos Island. That is how much every Tom, Dick and Harry is dishing out to pick up a nomination form to become president in 2023. Where is the money coming from? Do not let them fool you, it is your money and mine, stolen cold from our treasuries. And the mostly-stolen cash is in the hands of a few people who don’t care if the poor lives or die! These very many N100 million men are pitching in high vocal notes. An alluvion of the ambitious. A deluge of desperados. They all want to be president.  But how many of these characters truly want to help Nigerians? How many mean well for our unwell nation?  Even state governors who owe two years’ workers’ salaries are paying big bucks for nomination forms. We know their agenda. They are permutating to plunder and planning to pilfer. They are plotting to purloin and strategising to steal. Nigerians are convinced that these fellas are hellbent on mapping out ways to heist even the carcasses that are now left of the chagrined Nigerian economy. And Mr President is unable to bridle these bulldogs of deception. What a mark and mockery of a nation. “Na like dis we go dey go,” Ogochuckwu, a friend of mine asked recently. I told him, “Yes, na like dis we go dey go” except the people resist the devil so he can flee. Today, a few people hold Nigeria by the jugular. What tickles them is a Nigeria that does not work. When our electric grid collapses, their greed expands. When bandits strike and hold people hostage, their pockets get fatter. Bitter testimonies of the citizens are good news for them. Unfortunately, however, the destinies of Nigerians are controlled by politics and driven by these few bad men and women with too much power. Eckhart Tolle, German-born author and transformational spiritual teacher once spoke these uplifting words, “If you find your here-and-now intolerable and it makes you unhappy, you have three options: remove yourself from the situation; change it; or accept it totally.” I often wonder why Nigerians have chosen to fold their hands in cold complacency without resisting the devil. Why must you accept as fate what has never worked in your favour and for your future? Why must Nigerians surrender to boondoggle and embrace stupidity in leadership as destiny? Why can’t the people rise up to fight evil men in power? The fool with power tells the wise what to do and how to live. And the wise obeys the fool foolishly because he chose to be complacent. All he does is complain without lifting a finger to push back at evil among us. Complacency is defined as self-satisfaction especially when accompanied by unawareness of actual dangers and deficiencies. Complacency is a subtle imprimatur to oppressors that they can keep the fire of oppression burning hotter. Complacency cooperates with oppressors and enemies of a man’s destiny. Nothing will change when true change agents are on the sideline hooping and howling. In their millions, Nigerians are hungry. In droves, they are ravaged by poverty. In herds, they are hopeless about tomorrow.  Nigerians sit on acres of diamonds and on treasure throes and watch as the destiny of a beautiful nation is subjected to ridicule and ruins in the hands of thieves made chiefs. It is not for lack of good men that Nigeria’s problems are giving birth to more problems. Great men are on the sidelines while the indecent and indecorous hold the reins. Men who have solutions and are able to work them are sick of politics and politicians as they stay complacent.  The wind of complacency broaching through the mind of the wise has now emboldened fools to grab the reins of power by the jugular as they run the country into garroting Gehenna. In today’s Nigeria, people think the unthinkable and accept the unacceptable. Our people celebrate as God, men who steal their patrimonies and who should be candidates for the calaboose. With this mannerism and mindset in such an assembly of people, there can be no progress or development. My friends, it is time to fight evil dressed as ambassadors of the people in the people’s houses all over Nigeria. It is time to fight for your lives. If you don’t fight, you will always be fought by mean men whose comfort zone is purlieu of power. In his inaugural address on Friday, January 20, 1961, 35th President of the United States of America, John Fitzgerald Kennedy, delivered this memorable line: “Ask not what your country can do for you; ask what you can do for your country.” It was a reawakening line. One that reminds the complacent in any nation to wake up, grab the bull by the horns and fight for their lives. Kennedy’s words highlight the responsibility of the people to war against fomented irresponsible behaviours by the irresponsible with power. The responsible thing to do is to put your destinies into your own hands instead of surrendering them into the hands of those who don’t care if you die or live. Many of those running for political offices only want to control your treasuries as they control your lives. If you don’t fight them, you will not live. If you don’t resist them, you will not exist. The pain Nigerians are going through is real. The betrayal of men in power is real. The ravaging poverty across Nigeria is real. It is not necessarily the reality of the calamity that matters but the intervention move you make. There’s no need for Nigerians to grunt and grumble about where the country is right now. Life is only 100 per cent what happens to you and 90 per cent what you do about it. What you do about it will determine if what happens to you is 100 per cent resolved, or 100 per cent made worse. Life does not give you what you deserve; it gives what you demand. Rising up and confronting evil is the beginning of a nation’s rising. There is no magical evolution of a nation without a radical revolution. The days of folding your hands must be over; my people. It is time to fight to save Nigeria. The fight I advocate is not physical. It is not the fight you duke out with bayonets and swords. It is a commonsense cerebral fight. Where does the fight begin? It does from party election primaries a few days away. Insist that your delegates must not follow after Ghana-must-go bags full of cash. Tell them not to capitulate before money enticement. Urge them to think about the future of a nation that has so much to give to this world. Thieves must be banished from the bannister of power. The 2023 election will either make or break Nigeria. If Nigerians run into an error electing a man, or woman, of egregious error and character, the consequences will be untold. This is an admonition to Nigerians who have nowhere to go, no means to run away and no plans to leave Nigeria as all things incrementally cascade into misery. This is an admonition to Nigerians everywhere. It’s time to fight to save Nigeria. Twitter: @Folaojotweet Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com