The Bauchi State Police Command has, on Tuesday, allowed the family of the late Chairman of the All Progressives Congress in Bauchi Local Government Area, Bauchi State, Musa Gwabba, to take his corpse. Gwabba’s corpse was released to his family upon the completion of an autopsy and other medical examinations at the Tafawa Balewa University Teaching Hospital, Bauchi. It was gathered that funeral prayers were held for him at the Gwallaga Jummaat mosque at about 10am with the presence of several people who came to pay tributes. The deceased’s remains were later buried at the Muslim burial ground, Gombe road. The PUNCH reported Musa had died under mysterious circumstances. He was said to have been found in a hotel room vomiting and was rushed to the Abubakar Tafawa Balewa University Teaching Hospital, Bauchi where he was certified dead by a medical doctor. The Bauchi State Police Command confirmed the incident to journalists on Sunday. The command’s Public Relations Officer, Ahmed Wakil, in a statement, said the state Commissioner of Police, Umar Sanda, had ordered for an autopsy to be carried out to ascertain the cause of his death. Late Musa was eulogised by people, who described him as an easy-going person and nice to all. Musa’s death had been alleged by some to be politically motivated. A childhood friend of his also said that the sad news came to him as a shock as he wondered what he could have done to deserve being killed. Speaking further, he said, “though Allah knows what happened, we, his friends will ensure that justice is done, and whoever has a hand in the circumstances that led to his death must be brought to face the full wrath of the law.” “This is a strange thing to happen in the history of Bauchi politics, just because someone stood by the truth, some people who are not comfortable with the new thing ganged up to kill him. Allah will expose them,” another sympathiser, Aliyu Sani, who is a political associate of Musa, said. He also called on the Bauchi State Police Command to ensure that all those pointed out in the killing were apprehended and made to face justice. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com