History beckons for Nigeria international Joe Aribo, as Glasgow Rangers square up against Eintracht Frankfurt in the final of the Europa League at the Estadio Ramos Sanchez Pizjuan in Seville on Wednesday (today), PUNCH Sports Extra reports. At international level, it’s been a year to forget for the midfielder who suffered an early elimination from the Africa Cup of Nations in Cameroon with Nigeria in January. Aribo shone at the tournament, helping the Super Eagles to a perfect outing in the group stage. They, however, fell 1-0 defeat to Tunisia in the Round of 16. The 25-year-old suffered more heartbreak after Nigeria failed to qualify for the Qatar 2022 World Cup following a 1-1 aggregate loss to Ghana in March. This time, it was with his fellow countrymen and Rangers teammates Leon Balogun and Calvin Bassey. Now, he is determined to give supporters an occasion to remember forever as Giovanni van Bronckhorst’s side bid for Europa League triumph in the Spanish city of Seville today. “All the boys are buzzing. We know what an opportunity we have and we are ready to go, to be honest,” Aribo said. After a dip in form following Nigeria’s early exit in January, Aribo has come on strong in recent weeks and he is eager to finish in style by inspiring Rangers to European glory and repaying the faith that Van Bronckhorst has shown in him. “There was disappointment at not going as far as I felt we could have done (in the AFCON) because we had a good group stage. “Obviously going out in the next round was a bit disappointing but I had to keep going. I had to try and get back to the now. There was a bit in my feelings and it showed in my form. But I’m back playing now. “I had to put it behind me. I had a chat with the manager and he said he’d been there before. He told me he’d been in about five semi-final losses and that’s a hard thing to endure. He really helped me get back. “It’s always good to have a manager who has been there and done it because they understand it and know exactly what you are feeling at the time. “Of course, everyone can go through their own things personally. But a manager with that kind of experience knows how to be with you and what buttons to push. It’s really good to have. “It’s really good to have that kind of experience around because they know the scenario. “It’s a big stage and it might get the better of some people. But we just need to know that we’re confident, we believe in ourselves and feel we can do what we want to do. “I rarely ever see him shout or raise his voice. He is always so calm. That’s good to have because it kind of relaxes the boys too. It’s really good.” The final clash against Frankfurt is a fixture that Aribo will thankfully be able to take part in. The playmaker may have been forced to make an early exit a fortnight ago, but he will be at the heart of the action this time around. The semi-final win against RB Leipzig will go down as one of the finest that Ibrox has ever seen, but it was an outing that ended prematurely for Aribo after a nasty incident that saw him receive treatment on the park before being replaced by Fashion Sakala. Aribo would spend the rest of the second half watching on from the stands but the Nigerian spoke of the horrible night as Rangers booked their ticket to Seville. “For a second or two, I was,” Aribo said when asked if he had been knocked out by a thunderous Angelino strike that caught him full in the face and sent him crashing to the ground. “But I remember it all. “It was an amazing night. We were happy to get that job done and we’re ready for the next one. “I was able to watch the rest of game against Leipzig. I came back out and sat in the stand so it was okay. “I was worried that it might be a concussion but the Doc said I was fine. It wasn’t the worst outcome that could have happened. “Sitting in the stand, the atmosphere was crazy. We had the fans backing us; they were with us the whole game. “It was an amazing feeling. Even just being there in the stands and feeling it – it was mental. “All the boys are buzzing. We know what an opportunity we have and we are ready to go, to be honest.” An integral part of the side that won title 55 last term, the Londoner could well be on the move come the summer as English sides continue to watch his rise and rise with a keen interest. Former Charlton boss Lee Bowyer famously derided Aribo’s decision to head for Ibrox three seasons ago but he is another success story of an Addicks academy system that has produced its fair share of top talents. “I came just as Joe left so I didn’t come across him,” Aribo said of Joe Gomez, the Liverpool defender who will face Real Madrid in the Champions League final next week. “But of course I’ve seen what he’s done in his career and it’s been amazing. “It’s great to see him being on the biggest stage in club football. A lot of the boys in that youth team are doing really well for themselves now. “Everyone is going to have their opinions at the end of the day. I’ve just got my head down, stayed focused and let my football do the talking. Look at what’s going on and what we’ve done. “It means a lot to us. We know how big it us, for us personally but also for the club. It’s massive one for us. “There’s a few [from South London] coming over. I’ve got my family and some friends coming across.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com