The Commissioner of Police, Delta Command, Mr Ari Ali, has said that there is no sit-at-home order in the state as declared by the proscribed Indigenous People of Biafra. Ali gave the clarification on Sunday in a statement he issued through the state’s command spokesman, DSP Bright Edafe. The CP was responding to a Facebook post by some faceless individuals with the caption “Unknown gunmen Asaba Delta State sends strong message”. He assures residents of their safety and urged them to go about their lawful businesses stressing that the Command would deal decisively with anyone or group of persons that may try to cause mayhem in the state. The police boss urged members of the public, particularly residents of Asaba and the entire Delta North senatorial district, to remain vigilant, monitor and report any strange and suspicious movements of persons in their neighborhood to the command. “The attention of Delta Police Command has been drawn to a Facebook post by some faceless individuals with the caption “Unknown gunmen Asaba Delta State sends strong message”, in which Asaba residents are warned to observe the “Sit-at-home order as declared by the proscribed IPOB. “For the purpose of clarity, the CP Delta Delta Command has declared that there is no “sit-at-home order” in the state. “Members of the public, particularly residents of Asaba and the entire Delta North, should remain vigilant, monitor and report any strange and suspicious movements of persons in their neighborhood to the Command or other law enforcement agencies,” he said. Meanwhile, Ali has detailed officers and men of the command to be on red alert and remain watchful in order to maintain the existing peace in the state. He further directed the Deputy Commissioner of Police, Operations, Area Commanders, DPOs, and Tactical Commanders to maintain Police visibility across the length and breadth of the state. While urging them to deal decisively with anyone or group of persons that may attempt to cause mayhem, the CP directed the commanders to emplace measures that would make Delta uninhabitable for any group of hoodlums. (NAN)