The Independent National Electoral Commission, Lagos State, has decried the low number of online voter registration since the Continuous Voter Registration exercise commenced in the state. The state Resident Electoral Commissioner, Mr Segun Agbaje, disclosed this, according to a statement on Wednesday, during a meeting held at the commission’s office in Yaba. Agbaje noted that the CVR was organised in all the Local Government Areas for those who had misplaced their Permanent Voter Cards, relocated from one state to the other, and others who wish to change their polling units before the 2023 general election. He said, “INEC is currently observing CVR in all LGAs in Lagos. The exercise started last year and the conclusion of the exercise will be on June 30, 2022. This CVR will be for those that have not registered before. For those who registered between June and July last year, their PVCs are currently with the commission. “We have up to one million PVCs in Lagos as a result of the previous election in 2019. With the ongoing online registration, as of Tuesday, May 10, 2022, Lagos State has over 183 successful online registration while the total of those who have registered are over 400. Many are yet to complete their registration and that is why online registration is very low in the state.” The Executive Director, Africa Bridge Initiative, Mr. Opeoluwa Taiwo, in his address, said there was a need to sensitise youths to their civic rights and responsibilities. “In 2019/2020, ABI was assigned by the INEC body to Lagos Island LGA for three days to sensitise residents to voter education, how to register for their PVCs and how to get to vote and be voted for and we visited churches, mosques and markets. “We are happy to work together with INEC Lagos and next month, Mr. Segun Agbaje will further sensitise youths to voter education at our summit in Surulere, because it is vital that youths in the state are enlightened regarding their civic rights and responsibilities,” he said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com