THE Manufacturers Association has called for a deliberate economic policy approach to help Nigeria harness the benefits of the African Continental Free Trade Area. Speaking at a business luncheon on Thursday titled “Improving Nigeria’s Manufacturers Competitiveness within the Context of AfCTA’s Implementation,” Chairman of the Manufacturers Association of Nigeria (Apapa branch), Frank Onyebu, noted that AFCFTA was designed to be a game-changer for development ambitions in Africa. He, however, noted that considering the enormous challenges facing the country at this point in time, exploiting the opportunities presented by AFCFTA would be an uphill task. He said, “African Continental Free Trade Agreement would have to be competitive. And to be competitive it must create a deliberate economic policy toward sustainable industrial development. I dare say that there can be no sustainable industrial development without an efficient and sustainable energy system. Any initiative that would lead to a substantial reduction in energy cost is therefore welcome.” He enjoined the government at all levels to commence implementation of the design of the AFCFTA to reflect a commitment to creating a framework for deeper socioeconomic integration and improved cooperation that would enable trade, investment and the mobility of people while supporting industrialisation and the development of a dynamic competitive manufacturing sector. “Our own dear Lagos State should as a matter of urgency consider the implementation of this design to reduce the general cost of production.” The Director of Industry, Mr Lekan Ogunbowale, who represented Lagos State Commissioner for Industries, Commerce and Co-operative, Dr Lola Akande, said the government recognised the strategic importance of MAN as an association and would always be willing to have productive conversations with the group on ways of improving the manufacturing sector. He said, “A forum of this nature is an opportunity for us to open up our hearts in view of what is before us. What are the challenges? What should we do? These are the questions we should be asking.” The business luncheon featured a presentation by MAN’S Director, Research & Advocacy Support Division, Dr Segun Osidipe, titled “Deliberate Economic Policy Approach towards Sustaining Industrial Development in Nigeria.” The Chief Executive Officer, Pow Tech Power International, Engineer Goody Duru Oduzie, also gave a presentation on “Ability to effect a substantial reduction in energy cost: A panacea to protecting electrical equipment.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com