The National Action Committee on African Continental Free Trade Area has said that it is partnering the Ministry of Industry, Trade and Investment to develop a programme that will allow agricultural produce to move seamlessly from point A to B. The Team Lead, Export Market Development of NAC, Mr Ogo Chukwura, said this in an interview in Abuja, noting that the committee had begun the development of policies in partnership with relevant export agencies for free flow of trade in Nigeria. He said that infrastructure development was imperative to the operating environment of businesses and a key driver for cost. He stressed that the policies would bring together ministries, departments and agencies that had roles to play in supporting the growth of trade in the country. “We have engaged agencies such as the Nigerian Investment Promotion Commission, Nigerian National Petroleum Company, Nigerian Export-Import Bank and core institutions based on the overall vision and strategy set up to identify the link between the roles of agencies. We want to coordinate to increase ease of doing business for Small Medium Enterprises. We are also partnering with the Ministry of Tourism and other stakeholders to ensure security. It is essential to ensure Nigeria is safe or at least tourist sites are safe so as to benefit from foreign exchange.” Chukwura said NAC was also identifying the opportunities and developing strategies to boost trade. “We have identified and mapped out the goals, opportunities and challenges while working to proffer solutions for challenges. “Our focus rests on creating projects and programmes that can reduce cost, increase efficiency and increase the capacity of SMEs to trade and be competitive,” he said. According to him, power availability for businesses was essential and his team were working with relevant ministries and stakeholders to find out sources of power that could be made available to business communities. He added that negotiations were ongoing to ensure that pricing was kept within the capacity of business owners. He said the committee was working with relevant ministries to engage on logistics for effective service delivery. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com