The West African Examinations Council, Nigeria, has said the West African Senior School Certificate Examination for School Candidates, 2022, will take place between May 16 and June 23 2022 in Nigeria. Speaking at a press briefing on Monday, the Head of Nigeria Office, WAEC, Patrick Areghan, said the exam would take a period of six weeks, adding that the revert to May/June period for the conduct of the examination should be celebrated. “Gentlemen of the Media, I am delighted to inform you that the conduct of the West African Senior School Certificate Examination (WASSCE) for School Candidates, 2022 will take place between May 16 and June 23 2022 in Nigeria, spanning a period of six (06) weeks. “The revert to May/June period for the conduct of the examination should be celebrated. The significance of this is that the West African Examinations Council (WAEC) and the various member States, save Ghana, have now again found a common ground in respect of their academic calendars. “This shows a massive recovery from the devastating effects, disruptions, and confusion caused by the pandemic. We must give kudos to the Honourable Minister of Education and his Ministry for this wonderful feat.”
He explained that the final International Timetable for the conduct of the examination had been sent to all schools for their proper and necessary guidance. Areghan also said a total of 1,607,975 candidates from 20,221 schools had registered for the examination. He added that “Even though NIN was made a component of the registration process, it was not a compulsory requirement in order not to disqualify many candidates. Even after the registration exercise, candidates were, and are still being, allowed to submit their NIN for upload. I, therefore, want to make it categorically clear that no candidate was denied registration as a result of non-submission of NIN. “Gentlemen of the media, we are set for the conduct of the WASSCE for School Candidates, 2022 in Nigeria. We are working hand-in-hand with the Federal Ministry of Education, the various State Ministries of Education, the Nigeria Police Force, other security agencies and other stakeholders, to deliver, as usual, a credible examination to the Nigerian Child and the general public.” Areghan also warned operators of rouge websites to desist from their heinous acts. “We also want to sound a note of warning to all operators of rouge-websites that WAEC will not condone their heinous acts during the conduct of this examination. “Parents are hereby warned to desist from patronising these evil-doers who are hell-bent on frustrating the efforts of WAEC. They should not patronise them as that would only lead to the destruction of their children’s destiny. “Meanwhile, we shall, as usual, work hand-in-hand with the Nigeria Police to bring perpetrators to book. There will be no hiding place for them. Perpetrators will surely face the full wrath of the law.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com