The Edo State Commissioner of Police, Abutu Yaro, has ordered a thorough investigation into the killing of an alleged suspect by some irate youths identified as vigilantes in Auchi, Etsako West Local Government Area of the state. It was gathered that the suspect was accused of theft and was burnt by the mob, who arrested the victim as members of a vigilance group in the locality. In a statement on Saturday by the command’s spokesman, Kontongs Bello, the Commissioner of Police was quoted to have condemned the manner the issue was handled by the group. The statement indicated, “The Commissioner of Police frowned at the action of the vigilantes, who instead of taking the suspect to the police for proper investigation and prosecution, aided the irate mob to burn to the death the suspect allegedly arrested for stealing without any recourse to the law. “The CP, who described the act as barbaric and inimical to the law governing our dear country, warned Edo State indigenes that the command under his watch will not allow disgruntled elements in society to take laws into their hands by killing suspects arrested for alleged crimes in such a dehumanising and unlawful manner. “He further warned that nobody has the right to treat suspects in such a barbaric manner; and it is wrong for anyone to assume the position of a law enforcement agency. “That, suspects apprehended in connection with any crime should be immediately handed over to the Police or any law enforcement agency constitutionally saddled with the responsibility of investigating and prosecuting such suspects. “The Commissioner of Police appealed to the general public to be calm, as the command is already mopping up those responsible for the gruesome act for possible prosecution.’’ Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com