The Federal Government has appointed Anamekwe Chukwunyere Nwabuoku to oversee the Office Accountant-General of the Federation. This followed an ongoing investigation by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission of the suspended Accountant-General of the Federation, Ahmed Idris, for alleged N80 billion fraud. The appointment was announced in a letter dated May 20, 2022, and signed by Permanent Secretary (Finance), Federal Ministry of Finance, Budget and National Planning, Aliyu Ahmed. The appointment is pending the outcome of the EFCC’s investigation, the letter stated. “In this position, Mr. Anamekwe is expected to carry out his duty in strict compliance with extant rules and observe the highest sense of professionalism expected of an officer working at his level,” the statement read. “Mr. Anamekwe was born on 15th October, 1962 to the family of Mr. Robert O. Anamekwe in Ehime Mbano Local Government Area of Imo State. “He holds Higher National Diploma (HND) in Accountancy from the Institute of Management and Technology (IMT) Enugu, and Master of Science (M.Sc) in Financial Management from Commonwealth University, Belize. “He started his civil service career with the Centre for Democratic Studies (CDS) and rose to the position of Principal Accountant between 1992 and 1995. He was deployed to the Office of the AGF, Abuja, from 1996 to 2001 as Assistant Chief Accountant. He served at the National Assembly, Office of the Senate President, from 2001 to 2003 as Special Assistant to the Senate President on Public Affairs and his duties included Advisory Services to the Senate President on Media and other issues. “He assumed duty as Chief Accountant in the Ministry of Defence Headquarters, Abuja and served as Head of Accounts Administration. Following his promotion to Assistant Director, Accounts, he was placed in charge of Funds in the Ministry from 2009 to 2012. “He became a Deputy Director (Accounts) in 2012 and was deployed to the Office of the Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF) as Supervisory Officer of Ecological Funds Accounts and other related matters. “He was promoted to Director (Accounts) in 2017 and was posted to Office of the Head of the Civil Service of the Federation. He was the Director (Finance and Accounts), Ministry of Defence Headquarters, Abuja, from May 2019 to March 2021.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com