The Senior Director, Development (Africa), Radisson Hotel Group, Erwan Garnier, speaks with EDIDIONG IKPOTO on the impact of COVID-19 on the hospitality industry and how the African market is reacting to the various developments in the global economy, among others How would you assess the hospitality industry in Nigeria and Africa? First of all, Nigeria is a priority country in our growth plan for Africa. Let me give you an overall picture before we go into the details. Radisson, as a group, has over 1500 hotels globally. In Africa, we have 100 hotels. Our aim and plan for Africa is to have 150 hotels by 2025. As part of our growth plan, we have a very focused strategy of expansion and we have decided where we’re going to grow as a priority. Africa has 54 countries. Today, Raddison is spread in 32 countries, so we still have room for growth in terms of countries. Some countries are not a priority for us, some are. Out of the key countries in Africa, Nigeria is part of the four countries where we see major expansion. Egypt and South Africa are among them. Nigeria is important because it is the largest economy on the continent and has a lot of metrics that show that we can have a lot of hotels in this country. Today, we have 10 hotels, we have five hotels open, and five hotels under construction. Our strategy for Nigeria is to develop, first Lagos, then Abuja, and Port Harcourt. We have nine leading brands: from economy to luxury, premium, and lifestyle. Our plan is to expand in different market segments knowing that Raddison is mainly targeting business segments, but we also have positioned for service apartments, and for resorts. So, the growth in Nigeria, I think, for all operators, has been challenging. It’s a market that is in need of hotels. You have a market that has too many hotels and you have a market that has not enough hotels. Nigeria is in a situation where the economy is big, the population is important, but there are not enough hotels if we are talking about good quality, international hotels. To give you an example, most of our properties right now are doing extremely well and I’m talking about 85-85 per cent capacity year-round, which means that you have four days out of seven with 100 per cent occupancy every day. If you look at the reports in the last two years, you would discover we have two hotels in Lagos that have opened with international standards – two hotels in the largest city in Africa. How specifically do the foreign exchange challenges impact the hotel business? You need to keep in mind that in a country like Nigeria, when you build a hotel, you also need mechanical and electrical plumbing. A hundred per cent of that is imported. Nothing is built in Nigeria. So, if you need elevators, elevators are not built in Nigeria. What it means is you need to import them. To import them, you need to pay in US dollars. We know that overall, regardless of the cost of the hotel, 90 per cent of the total cost of a hotel is imported. So, if you have a challenge with forex, you have a challenge with your entire property, and this is one of the major issues or challenges for any hotel developer, including Radisson. How has COVID-19 affected the hospitality industry? COVID-19 has played a role in delaying projects because borders were closed. So, importing products took more time, paying people was more difficult. Obviously, COVID-19 must have had an impact, but if you look at over the past 20 years without COVID, you can see that you have the same hotel for the past 30 years in Abuja, nothing through COVID-19. In the past five, six years, we see that it takes a long time to develop hotels. I think it’s a macro-economic situation that has been further enhanced with COVID-19, but the reality was way before COVID-19. The macro-economic situation is more challenging but at the same time, there is massive opportunity because of the size of the market, because of the size of the economy. So, Radisson remains highly committed to developing Nigeria and we’re very conscious of the challenges knowing that we’ve been here for a while. What are your plans to make the Radisson brand more popular in the country? First of all, Radisson Hotel Group has nine leading brands, not one. That goes from economy to premium luxury or lifestyle luxury. All those brands have international reach. Our plan is to have 2500 hotels in the next five years. In Africa, we have 100 hotels. We plan to have 150 hotels, and our brands have been enhanced and adapted to the market. So, we have transformed a lot of our brands and the company itself by creating best-in-class results, by making sure that we drive more revenue, more profit, and a better guest experience. We have adapted our brand standards to make sure that the brands are fit to the needs of our consumers and we make sure that we are not adding things that are unnecessary or forgetting things that are, in fact, really needed. Today, Radisson Blu is the fastest-growing brand in Africa. We sign more hotels than any other brand. There are 111 brands in Africa competing with each other. Raddison Blu is number one. If you look globally, Radisson is owned by a Chinese group, Jin Jiang, which is the number one hotel group in Asia and in China. We are the fastest-growing brand in India. So, we are very active in our expansion plan and we have restructured the company to make sure that we get better results for our stakeholders and better service to our customers and to our consumers. The World Bank and IMF have made moderate projections about Nigeria’s economic growth. In what way do you think this will impact hotel growth in the next two or three years? I think the dynamics are not going to change tomorrow. This is Nigeria, I think the fundamental macroeconomic situation is still going to be the same for the time being because they’ve been here for a while. Interest rates have increased, so debt financing is more expensive. There is a big demand from the consumers because business is still growing, the population is still growing, and regional travel is still happening. So, you need hotels, and there are not enough hotels, and the macroeconomics in terms of cash are still challenging. The ones that have the most knowledge of the market; the ones that have the most access to equity (cash); the ones that have the best relationship with the government are the ones that will be successful. The ones that are not strong and are not connected locally and don’t have an understanding of what is trending in hotel development will not succeed. Do you think some hotels may die? No. I don’t think they will die. I think projects in their infancy may die. Existing hotels will perform well, and if they don’t perform well, somebody else will take them over. I think it’s going to be now, you’re going to see more and more brands in the market. I think there will be more competition and you can see it happening slowly. I think that macroeconomics for now will create opportunities. You said mergers and acquisitions may happen. How will they happen? It’s logical because, in a market like this, it’s so lengthy and expensive to build a new hotel. So, investors would prefer to take over existing assets, because they would not want to go through the risk of delays in building hotels. In fact, we have investors right now that would like to buy assets in key countries of Africa, including Lagos, while Radisson will be managing on their behalf. So, looking at the opportunity, I think mergers and acquisitions are the logical options. How do you compare the cost of running hotels in Africa to that of developed economies like Europe and America? Running a facility in Africa is different from Europe and developed countries. First of all, the cost of developing a hotel in Africa is much more expensive than in Europe or in the US. Reason number one is that you import most of the products while in Europe and the US, you don’t. So, there is no cost of transportation and duties. Two, you need a lot of people to build a hotel like this. Obviously, you need consultants, architects, designers, IT, engineers, surveyors, and more. You need, maybe, 12 to 15 different types of consultants to work on a project like this. I would say 80 to 90 per cent in Africa are coming from abroad. The engineers, most of them don’t come from the country. So, those skilled people are obviously more expensive. They need to fly in, stay here. So, what I’m trying to say is that the overall cost of development is much higher here. And then, when it’s over, you’re in a situation where it gets interesting, because here we have high rates. If you look at America or Europe, rates are lower. You can go to Europe and go to a five-star, but when you go to a five-star here, prices sometimes double or triple. Here, the cost of running a hotel is more expensive. Why? Electricity is very expensive. You run air conditioning all the time. Your maintenance costs are much higher because you live in countries that are very unique. Overall, what I’m trying to say is, your cost structure is very different, and higher. At the same time, you have different revenues. The revenues are better because of the market situation. But overall, if you look at comparing the profit and the return on investment, African hotels have a better return on investment than European hotels. As an investor, people are looking at opportunities here because of the return on investment, which is really interesting. Do you see room rates going up considering all these macro-economic factors you have talked about? The room rate is always going up because of inflation, but you won’t see a drastic increase. In fact, if you look at the past few years, the rates have dropped because of currency. If you look at our price in dollars and you convert it to naira, there is a drop. It’s a macroeconomic drop. Where do you see Radisson in the next five years in Nigeria? We would like to see Radisson in Nigeria present in Abuja, Port Harcourt, and stronger in Lagos. Right now, we have 10 hotels open and in development and we would like, in the next five years, to double that, and I think we can achieve that. If you think about 10 hotels in five years, it’s two hotels per year. We are looking at different market segments. If you look at Lagos right now, we are really focusing on Ikoyi, Ikeja, VI, and Lekki. So, we are really discussing with different partners on what we can do. Frankly, our priority right now is that we want to go into Abuja. There is a big push into Abuja because we believe that there is a big market opportunity.  All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com