A female aspirant in Nasarawa state, Maryam Musa-Muhammed, who is contesting the Lafia/Obi Federal House of Representatives seat on the platform of the All Progressives Congress, has appealed to delegates of the party to vote for her in the forthcoming primary election slated for later this month. Speaking during a press conference in Lafia on Monday, Musa-Muhammed appealed to the delegates to support her ambition in order to boost the confidence of other women to participate in politics. The Lafia/Obi Federal Constituency aspirant who promised to ensure that her constituents enjoy the dividends of democracy if she emerges victorious in the primaries and the general election in 2023, said supporting her aspiration would ensure gender balance in governance as there were few elected females in Nasarawa state. She said, “Since 1999, our constituency have not had a female representative at the National Assembly. I have the experience and if I am elected into office in 2023, I will ensure that my constituents enjoy the dividends of democracy. “I want to make a difference with what is happening in our communities. I want to fight for the women’s right, girl child education and include the youths and persons living with disabilities in my empowerment programme. “The men, women and youths in my constituency are hundred percent behind me. There are a lot of things that needs to be done. We have schools without teachers, hospitals without drugs and other social amenities are lacking in the constituency. “So, I am appealing to the delegates who would be voting during the primary election of our great party, the All Progressives Congress, to give me a chance and I promise to ensure steady growth and development of our constituency.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com