The Oyo Sports Council Chairman, Honorable Gbenga Adewusi,  tells TEMITOPE ADETUNJI how he was battered by the fans of a  losing team in Oyo State Can you tell us about yourself? My name is Honourable Gbenga Adewusi. I am the Chairman, Oyo State Sports Council. There was an online report that you were attacked by hoodlums over N5m betting loss; how true is that? It is very true. I was at the stadium for the game between Shooting Stars Club and Mountain of Fire FC, which ended in a 1-1 draw. Some fans of the 3SC club accosted and attacked me, saying that I sold out the match to the opponent, which caused them to lose N5m on an online betting platform. How did this happen? Well, I was attacked on Sunday evening around 6.30pm by some guys, and I am not sure of identifying them if I see any. 3SC is 10th on the Nigerian Professional Football League table, while MFM is 20th on the board. The game ended after the MFM team equalised in the 92nd minute of the game after 3SC had taken the lead in 42nd minutes. They (3SC fans) tried entering where they were not supposed to enter, so I asked them to leave the place. They had plans to beat members of the opposing team, so I tried stopping them from attacking the players, because I am in charge of the stadium, and if anything happens, I will be held accountable for it. After driving them out of the place, on my way to my office, they attacked me. The fans of the 3SC pounced on me because the Ibadan-based club thought I sold the game to MFM, who are 20th on the table. I am not even the coach of the team, but the fans wanted me to make 3SC to score by all means; they accused me of selling the match to MFM, adding that I made them lose N5m bet on the game they played on an online gambling app. It happened at the underground tunnel, where the players are supposed to stay after playing tennis close to the dressing room at Lekan Salami Stadium, Ibadan, Oyo state. When did the incident occur? It happened on Sunday, May 22, 2022, around 6.30 pm immediately after the match. Were there no people to rescue you when the hoodlums attacked you? There were a few people but there were more hoodlums than the people who would’ve helped. I wasn’t expecting what happened and it was shocking to me. Someone slapped me from the back. I tried protecting myself initially, but by the time I came out to enter my car, they had already ganged up against me and started beating me. Did you report to the police? Of course, I did. They were there when it happened. The boys left before they could be caught. The police are still searching for them. What was the response of the Oyo State Government to this matter? I don’t think the Oyo State Government is aware of the incident What do you think was the aim of the hoodlums? Their complaint was that I didn’t allow them to win, and betting was the main cause of the violence. What are your demands? I want the government to ban sports betting. Doing so, it will reduce the level of crime and violence. Many young people rely on betting even without working. They see betting as a source of income. What do you think can be done to stop violence by football and other sports fans? Well, I think the government should tackle the aspect of sports betting, which is one of the ways violence in sports can be curbed. I can’t just imagine someone betting with N50 and expecting to win N350,000. It is criminal.  All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com