The All Progressives Grand Alliance, has insisted that Edozie Njoku is not the national chairman of the party and only looking for an avenue to defraud elective office seekers. Addressing journalists in Awka on Friday, the National Coordinator, APGA Media Warriors Forum, Chinedu Obigwe, cautioned its aspirants not to fall victim of his antics by buying form from him. Obigwe added that Victor Oye remains the authentic national chairman of APGA and he will complete his tenure. He said, “Edozie Njoku is not APGA national chairman and can never be APGA national chairman. “The worrisome aspect of the dirty game Njoku is playing is that we can’t really tell his reason for deciding to dent the hard earned reputation of Justice Mary Odili-led Supreme Court judgment on the matter. “Inasmuch as the National Legal Adviser of APGA, Barrister Sly Ezeonkenwa, has clarified the true position, it is also for the benefit of the public that we set the records straight on Njoku’s fallacious claims. “The truth is that Njoku is a political fraudster that is desperately looking for an avenue to defraud elective office seekers.” Obigwe therefore cautioned its aspirants to beware Njoku and avoid falling prey of his antics. He said, “We received enquiry calls from aspirant that is contesting the forthcoming primary election of APGA. The person called me to confirm the veracity of the claim that justice Mary Odili of the Supreme Court will do a review of the 2021 Supreme Court judgement that authenticated Victor Oye leadership of APGA. “The person told us that someone from the party advised him to go and pick form from Edozie Njoku because Justice Mary Odili of the Supreme Court will remove Victor Oye as APGA National Chairman through a review of the 2021 judgement. “We told the person that Njoku is a political fraudster that is desperately looking for whom to defraud and he should be aware. No Supreme Court judgment has removed Oye as APGA national chairman. “We condemn in its entirety the dragging of the hard earned reputation of Supreme Court to the mud.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com