The board of SIFAX Group has announced the appointment of Dr Taiwo Afolabi as the new board chairman of the company. In a statement, the Group Head, Corporate Communications, SIFAX Group, Muyiwa Akande, said that the appointment was with immediate effect. Afolabi, who was until this appointment the group executive vice chairman, replaces the former chairman, the late Olowu of Owu, Oba Adegboyega Dosunmu, who died in December 2021. The statement quoted the Group Executive Director, SIFAX Group, Mr Bode Ojeniyi, as saying that the appointment was a natural progression for Dr Taiwo Afolabi, who had worked assiduously in the last 33 years to build the company to become one of the leading conglomerates in Nigeria today. He said, “His choice was unanimous among the board members. Afolabi has given all his resources, financial, goodwill, mental and social capital, among others to see that the company continues to return impressive business growth and profitability year on year. “The success story of the company cannot be divorced from his rigour, leadership, strategic thinking and foresight. Taking all these into account, the board found him worthy of this appointment for sustained entrepreneurial leadership and better service delivery to our clients as well as improved returns to all stakeholders” In his acceptance speech, Afolabi said his immediate goal would be to drive the five-year strategic growth plan of the company to a logical conclusion. “The company has, without doubt, achieved so much, but there is still so much ground to cover. Interestingly, my appointment coincides with the midway point of our five-year strategic growth plan designed to improve the profitability of our various businesses and expand to new territories both locally and internationally.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com