The Federal Government has assured of its support to potential investors who are ready to revive, reform and transform  Calabar and Kano free trade zones. The government is seeking investors willing to make them functional and globally competitive. The Minister of Industry, Trade and Investment, Otunba Adeniyi Adebayo, said this during a roadshow for the concession of Calabar and Kano FTZs, organised by the National Council of Privatisation, through its secretariat, the Bureau of Public Enterprises, in conjunction with Federal Ministry of Industry, Trade and Investment and the Nigeria Export Processing Zones Authority, in Lagos, on Tuesday. He said this was imperative to accelerate economic growth in the country. The minister said, “The reform of the two zones is a pathway to accelerating the country’s industrialisation drive and economic development. We are therefore looking  forward to an interactive engagement with all the prospective investors and be assured that the entire concession process will be transparently implemented to ensure that only the best emerge for each of the zones.” He explained Federal Government’s targets (through FTZs reform) as contained in the ERGP document. Adebayo said the targets aimed to “Boost manufacturing’s share of GDP to 20 per cent by 2025; create 1.5 million jobs by 2025; generate $30bn in annual export earnings by 2025; improve the utilisation of Nigeria’s factor endowments and comparative advantage by 2025; and create local models of global best practice in the provision of hard and soft infrastructure and an enabling business environment.” The Director-General, BPE, Alex Okoh, said with the level of indications and participation, the level of interest by prospective investors had been quite strong. He said the bureau published the request for qualification earlier last month, which was the first stage of the process. The director-general said the government’s expectations should be able to catalyse development in the West African region that would optimise growth and development. The Managing Director, NEPZA, Prof. Adesoji Adesugba, who was represented by Director, Zones, NEPZA, Muazu Ruma, highlighted the significance, benefits and incentives of investing in the Calabar and Kano FTZs. He mentioned incentives like free duty, tax exemptions and import substitution drive, among others, as some of the incentives and benefits of investing in the zones. The Representative of  Transaction Advisers of the FTZs, Ernst and Young, Damilola Aloba, in his presentation, said the two-tier concession structure, which involved a property holding company and the concessionaire, would be adopted for the purpose of the transaction.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com