The Senator representing Taraba South in the National Assembly, Emmanuel Bwacha, on Friday, said Taraba State was on the precipice and needed to be urgently rescued. Addressing a press conference in Jalingo, the former Senate Deputy Minority Leader said Governor Darius Ishaku had taken Taraba State several steps backwards in his seven years of alleged misrule and urged the people of Taraba to vote out the PDP government in 2023. Bwacha, who is contesting for the governorship seat of Taraba State on the platform of the All Progressives Congress, noted that he was out to rescue the state from total collapse. “Taraba can not raise her head among the comity of states in Nigeria. The state has lost her glory and we need to bring the state back and restore the lost glory. “Taraba is on the precipice. I weep when I drive around the State. There is no government presence in any part of the State. I am sincerely weak and my morale is low. There is no future for our children. “We need a state where everybody will call home. Our collective resolve is to restore confidence in the minds of the people of Taraba. I will do that and more. I will bring in innovations that will transform our infrastructure and get the State working again,” he pledged. On how he can explore the potential resources of the State for the good of all, Bwacha said he was fully prepared to get the State working from day one with a comprehensive agenda on how to develop the State already in place. The governorship aspirant described as false, allegations that he diverted constituency projects and challenged anyone with concrete evidence of corruption allegations against him to bring it forward. “The publication that ICPC indicted me over constituency project is not true. I don’t handle constituency projects. The zonal intervention funds are handled by ministries and agencies of government and ICPC has a tracking mechanism. “Anyone with evidence of diversion of constituency projects against me should bring it up. I am ready to face prosecution if found guilty,” he said.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com