Vice President Yemi Osinbajo on Monday said despite the COVID-19 pandemic, the Federal Government was able to surmount the challenge because it was not beyond what it could handle. He also noted that the regime’s success is predicated on the fact that God has not allowed it to encounter any challenge that is beyond it. Osinbajo said this at the reception hosted by the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), to celebrate Eid-el Fitr at the Banquet Hall of the State House. He said, “Our government has been confronted with problems. COVID-19, for example, was a problem that nobody ever expected; it took two years of the life of the government and the life of the economy as well. “We also have insecurity here and there, but it is in God’s very nature to provide everything required by the leadership to surmount the challenges it faces. God will not give us any challenge that is beyond us. “I want to thank the Almighty God for giving you, Mr President, all that you have required to tackle these challenges and give you the life and strength to tackle the challenges and surmount the challenges. I pray that the Almighty God will continually help you and help our government tackle various challenges as we confront them.” Meanwhile, a women’s group under the auspices of the Dolapo Osinbajo Friends and Fans said it had started consultations and mobilisation nationwide to ensure an Osinbajo presidency in 2023. Convener of the group, Bolanle Kaji-Hausa, disclosed this to journalists on Monday in Abuja while addressing a press conference. The move comes exactly three weeks after the Vice President officially declared his intention to run for the country’s highest office. According to Kaji-Hausa, “Our role at DOFF, being a volunteer organisation, is to woo and persuade teeming Nigerians, most especially the women and youths, to come out en mass to vote for Prof. Osinbajo to move this country towards achieving greater heights in the 2023 elections. This, of course, is predicated on his winning the APC primaries by the end of May. “We have started consultations and mobilisation across the length and breadth of this country.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com