The Bayelsa State Government has, again, called on the Niger Delta Development Commission to prioritise the completion of its long-abandoned bridge project at Akenfa, a suburb of the Yenagoa metropolis. According to the government, the bridge project, which crosses the Epie Creek and the access road to link the second phase of the New Yenagoa Gateway Road, was strategic to the socio-economic development of the community and the state. The state Deputy Governor, Lawrence Ewhrudjakpo, reiterated the call during a meeting with the leadership of Akenfa community and representatives of the NDDC in Government House, Yenagoa. A statement issued by his Senior Special Assistant on Media, Mr Doubara Atasi, said that Ewhrudjakpo urged the state office of the NDDC to effectively engage its headquarters with a view to completing the project. He clarified that the Bayelsa government did not have the powers to revoke and re-award contracts awarded by the interventionist agency. Ewhrudjakpo pointed out that only the NDDC had the prerogative to terminate the contract and re-award it to a competent contractor, but the state government was ready to collaborate with the commission to resume and complete the project. He said, “We are coterminous in terms of the value the project will add. We know of social security and other benefits when it is completed. But as we speak, we are quite divergent as to how we get to that coterminous point. “Your office (NDDC in the state) should raise the memo spelling out the social, economic and security impact the project will have on our people to your headquarters and what role they want us to play. “If they (headquarters) agree to liaise with the state government, then we must have that communication (document) because we cannot just agree verbally. Once we have that communication and agree on the necessary terms, we move on.” The deputy governor, however, set up an eight-member committee headed by the Commissioner for Works and Infrastructure, Moses Teibowei, to liaise with the NDDC on the Akenfa bridge project. In their separate remarks, the paramount ruler of Akenfa community, Obadiah Osomu, and the member representing Yenagoa Constituency 1 in the state House of Assembly, Oforji Oboku, lamented the plight of residents of the community over the non-completion of the bridge project. They stated that it had led to the loss of lives in the area and appealed to the state government to prevail on NDDC to resume construction work and complete the bridge to save lives in the community, especially during the annual flooding season. On his part, a director at the NDDC state office, Doodei Week, said the Akenfa bridge was a direct intervention project of the agency and not a partnership project as being insinuated in some quarters. He said that the commission was prepared to partner with the government on the project, noting that the agency had already taken steps to re-mobilise the contractor back to site to continue with the construction of the Akenfa bridge. Copyright PUNCH All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com