The Lagos State Government, through the Ministry of Energy and Mineral Resources, has unveiled the Lagos State Off-Grid Electrification Strategy and Action Plan with support from the British-funded Africa Clean Energy Technical Assistance Facility. The development plan for the electrification strategy was revealed during the formal handover ceremony on Monday at the Lagos State Ministry of Energy and Mineral Resources, Alausa, Ikeja, by the Commissioner for Energy and Mineral Resources, Olalere Odusote. Olalere explained that the ministry was working relentlessly to improve energy access in the state. A statement also revealed that the programne, which is being implemented by Tetra Tech International Development and funded by the UK’s Foreign Commonwealth and Development Office, was geared towards the improvement of the off-grid energy access in Lagos State. Odusote said the government developed the Lagos State Electricity Policy in 2021 to articulate its vision for creating a viable sub-national electricity sector that caters fully to the needs of its citizens while also enabling significant socio-economic growth. He further explained that the government’s plans follow the arrival of the off-grid solar sector as an important component in achieving access to energy – for all-in the state. The ACE-TAF Nigeria Country Manager, Mr. Chibuikem Agbaegbu, expressed his happiness in regards to seamless collaboration with Lagos State Government in improving energy access to Lagosians. According to him in 2021, AC-TAF made a commitment to support the State Government to encourage an enabling environment for off-grid solar, hence, the birth of the Electrification strategy and action plan in Lagos. Agbaegbu maintained that the Off-Grid Electrification Strategy and Plan further emphasizes the State Government’s commitment to clean off-grid electrification to provide an enabling private sector investment in its off-grid electricity market.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com