Polo Limited, a Nigerian retailer of luxury goods, has said it is partnering with IWC Schaffhausen, makers of Swiss luxury timepieces, to promote class and status in Nigeria. During the launch of IWC Schaffhausen in Lagos, Polo said it was bringing the IWC brand closer to its clients and newcomers as a strategic move that would not only satisfy but supersede the growing appeal for elegant timepieces among watch enthusiasts in Nigeria. The Executive Director, Polo Limited, Jennifer Obayuwana, commended IWC for its progressive outlook, which had allowed the brand continually re-invent watch movements to create ladies’ watches. She said, “Although not known by many, IWC has created ladies’ watch models regularly since the late 1870s, one of which is a personal favourite of mine, the Da Vinci Lady Chronograph. “The IWC brand is a promise of durability, reliability, and value for money because it will appreciate over time. The dual time feature is beloved among travellers because it allows them to tell the time in another time zone.” Obayuwana added, “IWC uses bronze for the manufacture of its products. For us in the watch-making business, this is innovation because bronze is a material scarcely used by watchmakers. “The brand is also dynamic in its ability to cater for its fans in aviation with truly sporty, active, and fast-moving lifestyles while serving a distinctly conservative demographic as well.” The firm disclosed that the strategic partnership between Polo and IWC is expected to consolidate the loyalty enjoyed by the Swiss luxury watch brand, while also welcoming a new crop of watch lovers into its fold. While stating that there is a huge market for the brand, Obayuwana noted that the partnership between Polo and IWC would provide long-term support for the international brand and its customers in Nigeria. “We are proud to have the exclusive privilege of introducing to Nigerians an exceptional brand that has delighted watch enthusiasts for generations,” she said.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com