National Leader of All Progressives Congress and presidential aspirant, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, has congratulated former Vice President Atiku Abubakar for emerging as the candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party. Tinubu commended Atiku for his patriotism and commitment to Nigeria’s progress. Tinubu also congratulated the other contestants for the orderly and peaceful way they conducted themselves and for pledging to rally around the winner in the true spirit of democratic sportsmanship. He expected the former Vice-president, who was also the 2019 presidential candidate of the PDP, to be his worthy opponent in the coming 2023 presidential election. The APC National Leader said Atiku’s victory didn’t come as a surprise to Nigerians because of his vast experience as a statesman and veteran of many presidential contests since 1993. While welcoming the PDP candidate to the race, Tinubu added that the coming election should be about issues that will improve the quality of life of Nigerians; bring peace, progress, and political stability and solve myriad of sociopolitical challenges and insecurity currently facing the country. He said, “I welcome the victory of Alhaji Atiku Abubakar as the candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party in the just concluded primary. I look forward to squaring up with him as a worthy opponent in the coming election. I have known the former Vice President as a formidable politician and a patriot who believes in the unity and progress of our dear country. “As we move further into the election season, I charge the PDP presidential candidate and all political actors across party lines that we should make this election season one that is devoid of bitterness, rancour and strife. “We should make our campaigns peaceful and issue-based. Election season should be a festival of ideas that will uplift our country and improve the living condition of all our people. “Unfortunately for the PDP, its candidate will be burdened to explain why Nigerians should give it another opportunity, after squandering 16 years at the central government, without much to show. “Nigerians are yet to forget the national ruin and mismanagement of our country for 16 years by successive PDP administration and this bad memory will dog the campaign of the PDP Candidate. “Nevertheless, I once again congratulate our former Vice President for his victory in his
his victory in his party’s primary.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com