The Serving Overseer of the Citadel Global Community Church, Pastor Tunde Bakare, has officially declared to contest the 2023 presidential election. The presidential aspirant declared his intention to succeed the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd), next year on Monday at the Shehu Musa Yar’Adua Centre, Central Business District, Abuja. While delivering his speech, Bakare said if elected president, his government would largely be based on carefully designed four areas of focus. According to him, as president, my administration will deliver on four mandates, namely Peace, Progress, Prosperity, and Possibilities. He said, “Today, I am offering myself to close the distance between the Nigerian reality and every Nigerian dream; to unlock the power of public policy to accelerate transformation; to infuse our young people with a surge of
hope for what is possible; to roll my sleeves up and work to solve Nigeria’s most intractable problems; to build a cutting-edge nation at the forefront of innovation; to create a new dynamic of belonging in which
everyone has a seat and a say; I am committed to the realisation of A New Nigeria for Every Nigerian in my lifetime. “This is why I am formally announcing that I am running for the Office of the President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the 2023 elections.” The cleric, who was Buhari’s running mate in the 2011 presidential election, said he understands the pains of Nigerians better and that informed his decision to contest next year’s election. “I stand here before you today mindful of the realities, but hopeful enough to offer myself as a bridge; a bridge connecting the dreams of our founding patriots to the highway of every Nigerian dream; the ones deferred and the ones you still wake up to each morning; a bridge between today’s Nigeria and the one you know is possible. I stand here today to acknowledge that the realisation of my dreams was facilitated by Nigeria.” Details later… Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com