Former Aston Villa striker, Frank McAvennie, believes Nigeria international Calvin Bassey is not ready for a move to the English Premier League despite speculations linking the player with a move to England ahead of next season. Bassey had an impressive performance in the 2021/22 season with Glasgow Rangers and has been linked with an exit from the Scottish giants, with Chelsea, Newcastle, Aston Villa, Crystal Palace among some of the clubs in the race for the Nigerian. The 22-year-old caught the attention of many scouts with his solid display as he helped Rangers reach the final of the Europa League, where he was named the best defender in the final, despite the Scots’ defeat to Eintracht Frankfurt on penalties. The defender has a year and a half left on his current contract, which expires in 2024, but he has continued to be linked with a move away from Rangers with a move to England a possible destination as his former boss Steven Gerrard is keen on signing him for Villa. However, the former Villa striker is of the opinion that the Nigerian will be ripped apart in England despite coming good last season. “Can he go in and play in the Premier League right now? No,” McAvennie told Football Insider. “I don’t think he is good enough for the Premier League. If (Aston Villa manager Steven) Gerrard is buying him, it’s because he has done a job in Scotland. “England is a whole different game. He’s muscle-bound but if he comes up against someone like Jack Grealish he will get ripped apart. “I’m sorry to say that Bassey but that’s the truth. Another year up with Rangers and maybe he might be ready. At this moment in time, the brutal truth is he’s not good enough.” The Leicester City academy product made a total of 50 appearances for the Gers and had six assists in all competitions.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com