Real Estate Investment and Advocacy Group, 3INVEST, has officially announced May 30 and 31, 2022, as dates for its annual real estate summit after two years of hibernation due to COVID-19 and unforeseen contingencies. According to a statement, Real EstateUnite is the annual flagship event that provides an important platform for the built sectors in Africa to network, learn, transact, showcase and discuss opportunities and issues in global real estate yearly. With over 1000 participants, the summit would feature a conference, exhibition, leader/women’s forum and sustainability awards. The statement said the real estate sector was responsible for 40 per cent of all carbon emissions globally, and that the industry had both the obligation as well as the opportunity to make an extraordinary impact in creating a healthier, safer and cleaner planet. The statement read in part, “Therefore, for inclusive, economic growth and shared prosperity, the built environment as a matter of urgency must begin to take the lead in the plan, designing and managing more resilient and sustainable communities. To achieve this, Real Estate Unite Summit has been redesigned to address the global challenges and encourage the built environment in Africa to embrace the sustainability culture.” “Getting the real estate players to embrace sustainability is our collective goal. Our plan is to create a community of stakeholders who are passionate about sustainable development and culture, encourage education and participation in sustainability-related activities. It is meant to recognise organisations that are taking the lead in sustainability and finally lobby for ESG regulations, policies and better incentives for this community,” said the founder, Real estate Unite Summit, Ruth Obih. According to the statement, the 10th edition of the Real Estate Unite Summit would be centred on climate tech, sustainability and ESG with the theme, “Towards a Sustainable Culture.” It is scheduled to hold on May 30 and 31, 2022, at Eko Hotel, Victoria Island, Lagos. “The built sector has a substantial sustainability impact through land development, resource use, waste generation and labour practices throughout its life cycle. The sector impacts either directly or indirectly the implementation of almost all United Nations (UN) Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). “For the SDG goals to be achieved, we must encourage companies operating in the built sector and those that invest in, commission and use land and built assets to widen the scope of their current policies and strategies by identifying resilient options, business opportunities and operational challenges relating to all UN Global Compact issue areas,” the statement read further. Some of the participating partners this year include: Stanbic IBTC, Broll, Mixta Africa, Address Homes, Elalan, Haven Homes, Lekki Garden, Afriland, Dutum, Purple, UPDC, Landwey, Karmod, Home works, Nedcom Oaks and Clifton Homes, Ghana.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com