All Progressives Congress National Leader and presidential aspirant, Bola Tinubu, was questioned about his educational background and plans for Nigeria’s development by the party’s presidential screening panel on Monday. The PUNCH obtained videos recorded from his screening on Tuesday. In the videos, Tinubu boasted about his initiatives in Lagos and how he helped Nigeria develop its telecommunication sector. He also defended why he is qualified to be Nigeria’s president amidst controversies over his age and educational background. The screening panel was chaired by a former National Leader of the party, Chief John Odigie. Apart from Tinubu, other presidential aspirants screened on Monday included former Governor of Ogun State, Ibikunle Amosun; former Minister of Transportation, Chibuike Amaechi; Jigawa State Governor, Abubakar Badaru; and former Minister of State for Education, Chukwuemeka Nwajiuba. Others were Ebonyi State Governor Dave Umahi; Felix Nicholas, Senator Ajayi Borroffice, former Senate President, Ken Nnamani; Mrs. Uju Ken-Ohaneye; and former Governor of Zamfara State, Sani Yerima. The former Lagos governor told that panel that there are three highways to development that Nigeria must prioritise. “There are three highways in the development of a nation. If you have gas or supplying diesel, electricity transmission is also a highway and communication. “I could remember that I brought Eron to this nation. Telecommunication is now a success today in Nigeria. I brought Econet. I helped them, they now want to adopt 5G, we started it. “Nigeria is rich. The essence of our livelihood must be placed on short-term, and medium-term values. They must produce values for us,” he said. The presidential aspirant also recommended the development of  Nigeria’s commodity market. According to him, he had facilitated presentations to the Federal Government in that regard. While encouraging Nigeria to “establish commodity exchange”, he said, “Primary and secondary seedlings must not be underdeveloped. Keep your silos during every production, save your products in the silos and dry them, keep the surplus, you can never lose.” In a statement, Director, Media and Communication, Tinubu Campaign Organisation, Bayo Onanuga, claimed that “Tinubu impressed the panel during the screening process with the way and manner he answered and provided insight into many of the questions asked.” The statement read, “Some of the questions bordered on his upbringing, educational and professional background. “He confidently told the panel why he is qualified to fly the flag of APC as its presidential candidate. “He cited his success as governor of Lagos State, raising the state’s internal revenue generation from a paltry N600M monthly, which has now grown to N51 billion today. “He also cited his invitation to Enron to begin the first state-backed power generation in Nigeria and spoke on how Nigeria will need to treat the power transmission lines as a highway. “Tinubu in his answers demonstrated vast knowledge in economic management and a perfect understanding of Nigeria’s political economy. “The screening committee expressed satisfaction with Tinubu’s knowledge of the economy and sociopolitical issues that are affecting the country.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com