Anyone familiar with current events should have heard about the news of yet another outbreak of an infection in Nigeria called Monkeypox. As if to say another virus from the Monkey, thereby creating another fear of spread and serious illnesses. I, therefore, deemed it fit to educate the public on this disease. Monkeypox is said to have spread throughout Nigeria. Some Nigerian states and the federal government are actively working to limit the condition and find a remedy for those afflicted. It has expanded to the following states: Akwa Ibom, Bayelsa, Benue, Cross River, Delta, Edo, Ekiti, Enugu, Imo, Lagos, Nasarawa, Oyo, Plateau, Rivers, and the Federal Capital Territory. The outbreak began in September 2017, and it is still going strong in several states as of May 2019. Monkeypox is an uncommon disease caused by the monkeypox virus. The virus is a member of the Orthopoxvirus genus in the Poxviridae family, Variola virus (which causes smallpox), vaccinia virus (used in the smallpox vaccine), and cowpox virus are all members of the Orthopoxvirus genus. Monkeypox is a viral zoonosis (a virus transmitted from animals to humans) with symptoms comparable to those seen in smallpox patients in the past. However, it is less severe clinically. It has emerged as the most dangerous Orthopoxvirus after the eradication of smallpox in 1980 and the consequent suspension of smallpox vaccination. Monkeypox was first identified in 1958, when two outbreaks of a pox-like disease occurred in research colonies of monkeys, hence the name. During the increased effort to eradicate smallpox, the first human case of Monkeypox was recorded in the Democratic Republic of the Congo in 1970. Monkeypox has been documented in 11 African nations since 1970: Benin, Cameroon, Central African Republic, Democratic Republic of Congo, Gabon, Ivory Coast, Liberia, Nigeria, Republic of Congo, Sierra Leone, and South Sudan. Monkeypox’s natural reservoir has yet to be discovered. People have contracted Monkeypox outside of Africa due to foreign travel or imported animals, with cases reported in the United States, Israel, Singapore, and the United Kingdom. African rodents and non-human primates (such as monkeys) may, nevertheless, carry the virus and infect humans. In the Democratic Republic of Congo, a severe monkeypox outbreak was suspected in 1996–97, with a lower case-fatality rate and a more significant attack rate than typical. Varicella virus was found in some patient samples, while others had varicella and monkeypox viruses. Concurrent outbreaks of chickenpox and Monkeypox on this occasion could explain the shift in transmission dynamics. The most enormous known explosion occurred in Nigeria in 2017, 40 years after the previously confirmed case. Symptoms Monkeypox symptoms in people are similar but less severe than smallpox symptoms. Fever, headache, muscle aches, and tiredness are among the symptoms of Monkeypox. The fundamental distinction between smallpox and monkeypox symptoms is that Monkeypox causes lymph node swelling (lymphadenopathy), but smallpox does not. Monkeypox has a 7- to 14-day incubation period (from infection to symptoms), although it can be as short as 5-21 days. Fever, severe headache, lymphadenopathy (lymph node swelling), back discomfort, myalgia (muscle aches), and severe asthenia characterize the invasion stage (which lasts between 0 and 5 days) (lack of energy). Compared to other diseases that may appear identical at first (chickenpox, measles, smallpox), Monkeypox has a specific feature: lymphadenopathy. The skin eruption typically starts 1-3 days after the fever appears. The rash seems to be focused more on the face and extremities than on the trunk. The face (in 95 per cent of cases), palms of the hands, and soles of the feet are all affected (in 75 per cent of cases). Oral mucous membranes (in 70 per cent of patients), genitalia (30 per cent), and conjunctivae (20 per cent), as well as the cornea, are also affected. The rash progresses from macules (flattened lesions) to papules (slightly swollen rigid lesions), vesicles (clear fluid-filled lesions), pustules (yellowish fluid-filled lesions), and crusts that dry up and flake off. The number of lesions varies between a few hundred and several thousand. Lesions can be fatal in severe circumstances. Monkeypox is usually a self-limiting condition, with symptoms lasting between two and four weeks. The primary prevention strategy for Monkeypox is to raise public knowledge of risk factors and educate individuals about the steps they may take to decrease virus exposure. Scientific investigations are currently being conducted to determine the viability of utilizing the vaccinia vaccine to prevent and control Monkeypox. Some nations have or are considering rules for using the vaccinia vaccine to prevent infection, such as laboratory workers and healthcare professionals who may be exposed. To be continued…  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com