The Nigeria Football Federation on Sunday announced the appointment of Mr Joeé Santos Peseiro as the new Head Coach of the Senior Men National Team, Super Eagles. The appointment is with immediate effect, subject to the signing of agreed terms between the NFF and Mr Peseiro, according to a statement by NFF’s spokesperson, Ademola Olajire. “Peseiro is expected to lead out the Super Eagles for the first time during the upcoming tour of the United States of America, during which the three–time African champions will slug it out with Mexico and Ecuador ‘A’ Teams in prestige friendlies. “The Eagles will tango with the El Tri at the AT & T Stadium in Dallas, State of Texas on Saturday, 28th May before flying to New Jersey to confront Ecuador at the Red Bull Arena in Harrison on Thursday, 2nd June,” the statement read in part. Other appointments The NFF also announced that “former Nigeria international forward, Finidi George will now be 1st Assistant to Peseiro, with Salisu Yusuf now to be second Assistant as well as Head Coach of the CHAN and U23 National Teams. “Usman Abdallah is the third Assistant while Eboboritse Uwejamomere will be the Match Analyst and another former Nigeria international, Ike Shorounmu will be the Goalkeepers’ Trainer.” About José Vitor dos Santos Peseiro 62-year-old José Vitor dos Santos Peseiro is a Portuguese who played as a striker in his days and has wide and varied experience coaching top Clubs and National Teams across four different continents, namely Europe, Asia, Africa and South America. An educationist with a degree in physical education/sports sciences, Peseiro has top-level coaching qualifications/training, and has coached at Sporting Lisbon, FC Porto, Panathinaikos, Rapid Bucharest, Sporting Braga, Victoria Gumaraes, Al-Hilal, Al-Wahda, Al-Ahly Cairo, Sharjah FC and Real Madrid (assistant coach during the Galacticos era), as well as serving as Head Coach of the Saudi Arabian and Venezuelan National Teams. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com