Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, Monday in Abuja, said despite the Covid-19 pandemic which gulped two years out of the current administration, the Federal Government was able to surmount the challenge because it was not beyond what it could handle. He also noted that the success of the regime is predicated on the fact that God has not allowed it to encounter any challenge that is beyond it. Osinbajo said this at the Ramadan reception hosted today by the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), to celebrate Eid-el Fitr at the Banquet Hall of the State House. According to him, “Our government has been confronted with problems. COVID-19, for example, was a problem that nobody ever expected, it took two years of the life of the government and the life of the economy as well. “We also have insecurity here and there, but it is in the very nature of God to provide everything that is required by the leadership to surmount the challenges that it faces. God will not give us any challenge that is beyond us. “I want to just thank the Almighty God, for giving you, Mr President, all that you have required to tackle these challenges and for giving you the life and strength to tackle the challenges and surmount the challenges. I pray that the Almighty God will continually help you and help our government to tackle every one of the various challenges as we confront them.” Meanwhile, a women’s group under the auspices of the Dolapo Osinbajo Friends and Fans said it has kickstarted consultations and mobilization nationwide to ensure an Osinbajo presidency in 2023. Convener of the group, Bolanle Kaji-Hausa, disclosed this to journalists on Monday in Abuja while addressing a press conference. The move comes exactly three weeks after the Vice President officially declared his intention to run for the country’s highest office. According to Kaji-Hausa, “Our role at DOFF, being a volunteer organization, is to woo and persuade teeming Nigerians, most especially the women and youths to come out en mass to vote for Prof. Osinbajo to move this country towards achieving greater heights in the 2023 elections. This, of course, is predicated on his winning the APC primaries by the end of May. “We have kickstarted consultations and mobilization across the length and breadth of this country.” Fielding a question from our correspondent, the convener explained that DOFF is funded by donations from well-meaning Nigerian women and is not funded by the Vice President or his spouse. “This movement is not funded by the Vice President. Nigerians deem it fit to front him to ensure we deliver someone capable to the country. So, everybody, we are pooling our resources in making sure we actualize putting PYO in the presidency come 2023,” she said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com