The Special Adviser to Osun State Governor on Civic Engagement, Olatunbosun Oyintiloye, on Sunday said the All Progressives Congress in the state was prepared to win the July 16 governorship poll. Oyintiloye also warned opposition parties against violence ahead of the poll, saying Governor Adegboyega Oyetola’s administration would not tolerate repeat of an attack on journalists and some APC members by an opposition party during his governorship campaign in Gbongan town recently. The governor’s aide said this during a meeting organised by Osun Civic Engagement Centre with members of Nigeria Professional Photographers and Videographers Association Osun chapter in Osogbo on Sunday. Oyintiloye, who represented the governor at the meeting, also urged opposition parties to play the game of politics according to the rule during the poll. He said, “We want the opposition parties to play the game according to the rules. We don’t want violence in Osun. We are a peace loving state. We are seen to be one of the most peaceful states in Nigeria. “We don’t want anything that will affect the peace of our state. Do your campaign as expected. The incident in Gbongan will never be tolerated again. We have been going about, doing our campaigns peacefully. I expect the opposition parties to emulate our peaceful campaign across the state. “There must be no reason for any violence when it comes to campaign or the election itself. I must also say this, APC is fully prepared to win the election.” He also appealed to the electorate, who were yet to get their Permanent Voter Cards to get it and support Oyetola to ensure victory at the poll. A statement by Oyintiloye on Sunday titled: “Osun 2022: Gov. Oyetola warns opposition party against violence,’ noted that the chairman of the association, Mr Isaac Adegoke, commended the governor for various developmental projects across the state, and pledged support of members for his re-election.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com