The Peoples Democratic Party National Youth Movement has called on the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), to sack some of his cabinet members including the Minister of Education, Adamu Adamu, and the Minister of Labour and Employment, Chris Ngige. The organisation in a statement by its National President, Salahudeen Lukman, on Wednesday said they deserved to be sacked for failing to treat matters concerning education with utmost seriousness in the country, culminating in the recent industrial action by the Academic Staff Union of Universities. Lukman condemned the unseriousness given to the education sector by the All Progressives Congress. The statement reads in part, “As a political youth organisation with an understanding of how important education is to the young and upcoming generations, national security, economy and social development, we condemn in totality the less seriousness and concern given to education sector by the ruling APC. “Having ASUU on strike for 3 months with an extension of another three months while ASUP is commencing her own strike again today, is so worrisome; naira falls freely on daily basis with an unstable inflation rate, and fuel scarcity still lingers. “The Kaduna-Abuja train attack victims (captives) citizens are still in captivity yet the Minister of Education, Minister of Transportation, the CBN Governor, Minister of Labour and Minister of Petroleum who are saddled with these ministries are all in the race for President of Nigeria under the failed ruling party, APC. “This a clear case of failure, lack of respect for Nigerians, electorates, masses and peak of the inhumanity of man against humanity. “We the PDP National Youth Movement challenge President Buhari to prove to Nigerians that he is a man of integrity by sacking these careless and clueless cabinet members as they have all clearly shown a lack of understanding of their primary responsibilities, misplacement of priority, negligence of duty and abuse of office. “He is hereby advised to appoint other persons forthwith if there is anyone with a conscience left in APC to mount those critical ministries. “While we express deep concern and sympathy for teeming Nigerian students, we hereby declare our total support for the national shutdown of all major roads and airports by student leadership as declared by the National Association of Nigerian Students. “We urge Nigerians not to reinforce failure; it, therefore, means APC must be rejected at the poll from top to bottom. Our dear party PDP, which is known for pro-people-oriented governance should be massively supported to reclaim power across board, states, and centre, to Rescue and Rebuild our dear nation Nigeria as a matter of urgency and national interest.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com