Nigerian reality TV star, Olamilakan Agbeleshe, popularly known as Laycon, has expressed displeasure over his absence on the newly released nomination list for the 2022 Headies Awards. In a series of tweets on Wednesday, the rapper stated that despite working hard on his music career in the past year, he felt “some type of way” after none of his works clinched a nomination. He wrote, “I have never been a fan of judging people with the adjective ‘BEST’. However, I see awards as a compliment; something to tell you, ‘Hey! We see everything you’ve done and we think you should get this for your efforts’. “This doesn’t mean every other person didn’t put in work! Even TV stations, radio stations, OAPs etc. get ‘awards’ for their efforts, which doesn’t take away from the work every media body or personnel put into growing the industry, to be honest. “But when you work hard and you feel like you don’t get recognition for your work, your emotions set in.” The rapper further confessed that he was “emotional” and he would be lying if he claimed he did not want an award. The Big Brother Naija season five winner said, “A lot of people think I don’t deserve half of what I have and what I’m getting, so I’ve had to do double of whatever it is you’re supposed to do in this industry.” The rapper added that the best award an artiste can have is being appreciated by fans who attend their performances and stream their music. He added, “Still on still, I appreciate the awards, the ones I have gotten and the ones I’m yet to have. And when I don’t get them, I feel some type of way because that’s how it is meant to be, you wanna be acknowledged for what you’ve done, but not everybody will win an award! “But what matters is you and the gift you have. Use it and use it well, change lives and impact your society, that’s the real award. Congratulations to the nominees of the Headies, and congratulations to the organizers. I go wear another big shoe come this year.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com