The Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps said it had bursted an illegal oil dump inside a residential building in Rumuolumeni, in the Obio/Akpor Local Government Area of Rivers State. The corps said the building doubles as a dumpsite for the storage of illegally refined Automotive Gas Oil also known as diesel. Addressing newsmen at the scene of the crime, the NSCDC Commandant, Rivers State Command, Abu Tambuwal, said its anti-vandal squad made the discovery following sustained intelligence. Tambuwal who was represented by the command’s head of anti-vandal squad, Joachin Okafor, said the operatives arrested suspects who were indulging in the act. He stated, “Based on sustained intelligence, the Surveillance team of the Antivandal Squad laid ambush for three days to monitor the activities around the area. “In consonance with the provisions of Section 3 (l) (ii) of the NSCDC ACT 2003 as amended 2007;  I eventually ordered my men to advance into the compound and we later confirmed that the ash colour bungalow building located at Iwofe Rumuolumeni, Obio Akpor Local Government Area is being used as a loading point of illegally refined Automotive Gas Oil stored in cellophane bags. “In addition, we saw a black Lexus 330 saloon car with number plate Bayelsa GBB 52EA, a Toyota Avalon gold colour car with registration number Rivers FH 730 PHC laden with some cellophane bags of illegally refined AGO, a boat engine and several bags of AGO stored in cellophane bags scattered within the premises. “Let me use this opportunity to reiterate to the general public that the NSCDC Rivers State Command will not relent in the fight against oil theft, illegal oil bunkering and all acts of economic sabotage in the State. “If this unscrupulous act was not uncovered, it could have led to a fire outbreak and the continuous operation of illegal refineries in the area would definitely lead to environmental degradation and pollution of the environment which is hazardous to the health of the good people of Rivers State.” Tambuwal said the command will carry out detailed investigation to identify those behind the illicit act which he described as economic sabotage. He further said no one, no matter how highly placed would be left unpunished if found culpable, especially as the perpetrators are currently at large. “The residential building has been sealed and our operatives have cordoned off the area. “We have also identified a local jetty near the scene of the crime, where illegally refined AGO are being loaded for onward transmission to would-be buyers. “The Command will approach the court with the requisite jurisdiction to make necessary application for the forfeiture of the petroleum products, modes of conveyance and the residential apartment as this unscrupulous act contravenes the provisions of the miscellaneous offences act 2004, laws of the federation,” the state NSCDC commandant said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com