The National Chairman of the New Nigeria Peoples Party, Professor Rufai Alkali, has welcomed the former Kano State governor, senator Ibrahim Shekarau to the party. Shekarau recently joined the NNPP from the All Progressives Congress, a few days after Abdulmumin Jibrin, a former member of the House of Representatives and a director-general of the Bola Tinubu campaign group, joined the party. Reacting to the movement to the NNPP, Alkali said, “They are pointers to the fact that the NNPP has become the party to beat, not just in Kano State, but all over the country. “Senator Ibrahim Shekarau’s movement to our party as well as other movements in various parts of the country have now changed the permutations and political alignment in the country ahead of the 2023 general election. “Recall that before the emergence and sudden growth of the NNPP, the PDP was hitherto considered as the main opposition party in Kano and other parts of the country, and was expected to provide a formidable competition to the APC in 2023 as it did in 2019. “But with the PDP and the APC engrossed with leadership problems, our party has become the precious bride being sought after by many politicians across the country.” The NNPP chairman added, “Unlike in 2019, the political calculation in 2023 will be a different ball game. This is because we have taken far reaching steps to relaunch and reposition the party as one of the major political parties in the country. “Given the massive support we have received and continue to receive from people across the country, we are optimistic that very soon it would move from its current ranking as the ‘third force’ to the top in Nigeria’s political space. “So far, we have successfully conducted ward congresses in all the local government areas across the country. The local government congress, state congress and national convention were also conducted peacefully. “We are, therefore, bold to say that our presence is now felt in all the 774 local government areas as Nigerians continue to embrace our party. “The NNPP is the only party in Nigeria that has offered the youths less than 35 years of age fifty percent discount for the purchase of nomination forms. This has led to an influx of youths to the party and the party is equal to the task as it has put in place all measures to avoid rancour during the election. “It is not in doubt that Nigerians are tired and are, therefore, looking for a better option. Happily, with the calibre of people joining our party such as Senator Shekarau, the New Nigeria Peoples Party is today that new option that Nigerians have been yearning and waiting for. And we promise Nigerians that we shall do everything possible to ensure that every Nigerian is carried along. This party is all about correcting past and current mistakes done by the APC and the PDP and with your support, we shall achieve a better Nigeria and very soon it shall be the number one force in the country,” Alkali stated. Meanwhile, the party has announced a shift in the dates for the senatorial and governorship primaries. The National Secretary of the Party and Chairman, Convention Planning Committee, Dipo Olayoku, in a statement, said the action was taken  by the party leadership to ensure  transparent and hitch free primaries. The statement read, “The National Working Committee at its emergency meeting on Thursday, May 19, 2022, approved the shift in dates for the Senatorial and Governorship Primaries. “Consequently, the Senate screening will hold on Wednesday, May 25th, 2022;  appeals will hold on Thursday, May  26th, 2022. The primaries will hold on Saturday, May 28th, 2022; appeals will hold on Sunday, May, 29th, 2022. “For governorship,  the screening will hold, Saturday, May, 28th, 2022; the appeals will hold on Sunday May, 29th, 2022; the primaries; Monday, May, 30th, 2022 and appeals, May 31st, 2022.” It added, “For the Senate, all the processes will take place at the states, while for the Governorship, only the primaries slated for Monday, May 30th will take place at the states, while the other processes will take place in Abuja. “For the states in the South-East, because of the sit-at-home order on Mondays, any programme fixed for Mondays will be held on Tuesdays.” The NWC urged all members to cooperate with Primaries and Elections Committees in the interest of the party. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com