Adebisi Arewa, the father of a nine-year-old girl, who was allegedly abused by a teacher at the Methodist Girls High School, Lagos, talks to EMMANUEL OJO about the incident What is your relationship with the nine-year-old girl who was allegedly abused? My name is Adebisi Arewa. I am her father. When did the alleged abuse happen? It was in February this year. Who reported the case? I reported the case. How did you find out? Well, I went for a pickup and I noticed a very bad limb. She had a very bad limb. She was awkward and in pain, then I asked her what the matter was and why she was walking that way, but she said nothing. She was in denial for over a week. That was the first observation,   so I couldn’t do anything about it. How did you come to the conclusion that she was abused? We saw blood stains on her underwear. The sister was the one who noticed that when she was washing their underwear. She noticed a red spot and called our attention to it with a view to it being removed. That was why it was curious. For blood to be on her underwear, she was just lying. We then asked who the owner of the underwear was and she said it was hers. We asked her why there was blood there and she could not say anything, so I knew something was wrong. I then pacified her to open up and tell me what happened, that she should not be afraid. She then opened up and said one of the teacher of molested her in his office. What was your reaction thereafter? Did you confront Mr Bakare? Not immediately. My first reaction was shock and I told myself, ‘not again’. So, it was a very weighty allegation. I kept it to myself for days. I was trying to gather more information to be able to establish beyond doubt that yes, it happened. So, it was in the process of trying to wait and gather more information that the second attack took place. What do you mean by the second attack? I did notice a bad limb again after pickup one day but not as bad as the first limb. I noticed again the bad limb in her gait but it wasn’t as bad as the first claim, then I asked again, you have this limb again, what happened? But she denied it again until we got home and she was off guard at home. She walked past me in the living room, and I saw the limb ugly. The limb was very pronounced, and then I called her and asked, ‘You have this terrible leg again. What happened?’ Then, she owned up again and said the same man molested her again that day. That was how I discovered the second one. At that point, I did what any responsible father would do; I reported because her life was in danger. Where did you report the incident? The first point of call was the Mirabel Centre at the Lagos State University Teaching Hospital. I went to the domestic violence unit. They referred us to the Ilupeju Police Station, where the matter was investigated on March 17 and 18. What was the timeline between the first and second incidents? Maybe days. What did you mean by ‘not again’ when you first noticed the alleged abuse? Have you had that experience with any other child before? Yes. It happened to her younger sibling and the accused person was prosecuted and jailed for life. How old was she when it happened? She was three years old when it happened. How many children do you have now? I am blessed. They (my daughters) have senior siblings who are fit to be their parents. Their older siblings are males but not in the country at the moment. Are they of the same mother? Yes, the same mother. I have just two women in my life. According to reports, you said that your aides were arrested… Yes, they were threatened with arrests, but we now discovered that it was a threat. They called them out of the house, which was wrong anyway, and they were threatened that they would arrest them if they didn’t produce me. So, we called the Commissioner of Police, who cautioned them. What was the response of the Lagos State Government to this matter? From my observation, I think the Lagos State Government is condoning the behaviour of non-governmental organisations campaigning for the release of the suspect and so, they are becoming bolder and bolder, including picketing my house and staying there for almost a whole day until they were dispersed by the police, which is very wrong. A person’s right to protest and express their opinion does not include power or the right to invade the privacy of another citizen regardless of what their grievance is, and again, they have to realise that this matter is already in court. It’s sub judice and I am not the court. The court normally takes its decision under objective criteria based on the evidence before it. I don’t have control over that. So, I’m even a witness; I am not the accuser of this man. I am a witness. Their conduct is dangerous and if not immediately curbed, it may well degenerate into a breach of the public peace, because the crowds are getting larger, more daring and more reckless. Even with the way they are invading the privacy of the other citizens that they are trying to bring down; imagine publishing the name of the minor involved in a sex-related offence in the papers and social media without regard to the minor’s right to anonymity and protection. So, these are the problems. Immediately they started that, the Lagos State Government ought to have cautioned them, but it is giving them an audience. The governor granted them an audience. So, I think there’s an official approval of what is going on, which is very unfortunate because it portends a very bad sign for the administration of criminal justice in the state and Nigeria because any group of people can now come out to pursue a purely personal agenda regarding a matter that is already before a court of competent jurisdiction and seek mob justice. It’s like terrorism and that’s exactly what they did to the survivor. The survivor was practically terrorised to recount her consistent allegations. Of course, even the act itself of interrogating a child without the consent of a parent or guardian is an offence punishable by law, because a minor lacks the capacity to bail, lacks the capacity to grant interviews and lacks the capacity to confess. As a matter of fact, the requirement for confession is that even for an adult, the lawyer must be by the side of the person confessing before the confession can be taken for it to be admissible. But they did that after we had given our statement; they now surreptitiously went over and above me to her school and subjected her to torture. Are you referring to your child? Yes. That was on March 21. Who did that? The police in conjunction with the school authority. Even the alleged offender himself was on the premises that day. It happened in my daughter’s school, Methodist Girls High School, and the NGOs were there too. And that’s why I am against this forensic interview thing. So many of them were conducted on her to probably make her lie against herself and exonerate the man. So, each time an outcome of the investigation does not favour the alleged offender, he calls for a forensic interview. Do you think due process was followed in the arrest of the suspect? Of course. After we reported at the Ilupeju Police Station, our statements were taken and the girl was interviewed in secret; I was told to excuse them. They locked her up in a room and interviewed her. I don’t know what they have done to her. But she was consistent as to who did it, how and where, and how many times. It was after that the police decided to arrest the suspect. He was duly and properly arrested. What do you think is the aim of the protesters? Their aim is to pervert the course of justice. The lawyer to the protesters reportedly suggested that your children should be taken from you. What is your reaction to that? It’s very unfortunate. This type of advocacy is not new. This idea of taking custody of my children started way back and their arguments and entire purpose were to prove that the sexual abuse was taking place in the house. That the children are endangered and should be taken away from me is preposterous and ridiculous. The reason why it is ridiculous is this: can someone be molesting his child sexually and then make it public by accusing someone else outside the house, a member of the public? Is it logical? It’s not logical, because paedophiles are usually secretive, whether they are fathers, brothers, uncles, bishops, cardinals or popes. The typical behaviour of a sexual offender is secretiveness. They are so secretive that they are even ready to destroy the subject of their criminal act so that they (victims) will not divulge the information to the authorities and members of their families.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com