There were heavy shootings at the Peoples Democratic Party Secretariat, Abakaliki, Ebonyi State, on Tuesday evening, following the three-man delegates election billed across the 171 political wards in the state. The Publicity Secretary of the party, Nwoba Chika, had in a statement stated that the three-man delegate election could not hold in Ebonyi because of issues the party needed to resolve in the State, and further disclosed that the election would hold on Tuesday. However, investigations revealed that the three-man delegate election could not hold last Saturday, because of the perceived chairmanship tussle between Tochukwu Okorie and Silas Onu. The three-man delegate election slated for Tuesday, could still not hold due to varying issues. Aspirants, their supporters and other stakeholders of the party, who came to the party’s Secretariat very early on Tuesday awaiting the arrival of the three-man delegate election committee, were disappointed, as they waited in futility. When our correspondent visited the Secretariat at about 5pm on Tuesday, only one of the gubernatorial aspirants, Sen. Obinna Ogba, was seen standing at the premises of the secretariat with his supporters. Ogba was seen making and answering intermittent phone calls, a signal that indicated that something must be wrong somewhere. It was further gathered that the three-man delegate election committee had been allegedly abducted in Enugu, on their way to Ebonyi. This allegation could not be verified immediately due to the tension at the Secretariat as of the time of filing this report. There was also a heavy shooting at the party’s Secretariat following an alleged misunderstanding that ensued among party faithful. Onu was not at the Secretariat for further inquiries. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com