Daura, Katsina State, the hometown of the President, Major-General Muhammadu Buhari(retd), has witnessed noticeable transformation since Buhari assumed office in 2015 with the dividends of democratic rule dotting strategic parts of the town. People in the area will always remember Buhari who was an ex-military head of state before switching from khaki (military attire) to agbada (voluminous garment). Daura has undoubtedly enjoyed the dividends of democracy in the last seven years courtesy of one of its sons who is at the helm of affairs in the country. The otherwise mainly agrarian community with few businesses has metamorphosed into a commercial town that now boasts of the presence of projects from both the federal and state governments including the presence of privately-owned commercial ventures cutting across various sectors such as oil and gas, wholesale and retail trading, communication, transport, entertainment, banking, hospitality among others. The transformation in the town started to manifest shortly after Buhari assumed office in 2015. Visitors, especially those who do not frequent the state, need to make inquiries from residents to locate their destinations in the town. Daura town has transformed from a sleepy and peaceful town whose major occupations of the majority of residents are farming, trading, and livestock husbandry, to another commercial hub in Katsina State. Presently, traders from across Nigeria visit Daura daily where they carry out various commercial activities as witnessed in other commercial cities in Nigeria. Inside the present-day Daura are buildings and structures which boast modern-day architectural designs. The town also has a good road network and drainage system which makes the town attractive. The infrastructural developments and increase in the commercial activities in Daura have, by extension, led to developments and increase in commercial activities on its surrounding towns and communities such as Zanngo, Baure, Babamutumu , Dabueram,Ganga and Tsargalle, among others. Two major highways lead to the town; through Katsina and Kano states. There are other smaller routes to the town but are only known to residents and frequent visitors. No matter the route a visitor or dweller takes to enter Daura, the person will observe that it is a big town. If you enter through Kano highway, establishments such as the Nigeria Air force Reference Hospital, Nigeria Air force Quick Response Unit, Federal University of Transportation, Daura Township Stadium and branches of commercial banks will welcome you to the town. The establishments, apart from boasting of modern architectural designs, also arguably contribute to the economy of the town. The eyes feast on similar structures such as the 171 Battalion of the Nigerian Army, Federal Polytechnic, Daura, including federal and state establishments when one approaches Daura through Katsina highway. The establishments and institutions are complemented by a good road network and drainage system which makes the town attractive. Diverse business enthusiasts and entrepreneurs also engage in commercial activities to grow the town’s economic life. Some observers believe that the town enjoys more attention from the Federal Government to the detriment of other towns and cities. It’s a popular belief that projects are concentrated in the town simply because it is the President’s hometown. The projects town which appears to validate their claim include the Federal Polytechnic, Daura, the Nigeria Air force Reference Hospital, Daura, the Women and Children Hospital, Daura, the Federal University of Transportation, Daura, the proposed dualisation of Kano/ Kongolam highway designed to pass through Daura and the School for People with Special Needs, Daura. Other projects are the Nigerian Airforce Response Air Wing (Quick Response Unit), Daura, the Nigerian Army 171 Battalion Base, Daura, the Forwarding Operating Base of the Nigerian Army along Kongolam road, Daura, the National Directorate of Employment Centre, Ganga, Daura, upgrade and expansion of Daura Mini Stadium, the Sustainable Development Goals Skills Acquisition Centre, Zango Road, Daura, completion of the Sabke Dam, Daura which supplies one million litres of water to Daura and neighbouring communities and the 73km 132KVA line from Katsina to Daura and two 30 and 40 MVA transformers to boost power supply. There are also the 50-bed Maternity Centre at the Daura General Hospital built under the name of the First Lady, Sir Emeka Offor E-Library, Daura, the 400,000 litres capacity solar-powered water system by the NNPC and Belema oil in a joint venture with Jack-Rich Tein Foundation, several SDG school projects in Daura, rehabilitation, expansion, reactivation and completion of several abandoned and existing projects including roads, schools, drainages, water projects etc, the National Directorate of Employment Cosmetology training and distribution of Cosmetology packs to 1000 women in Daura, among others. Commenting on the development, Chairman, Daura Emirate Coalition of Association, Alhaji Muhammad Daura, stated that the President had been fair to all parts of the country including Daura town. He said that Daura would always be proud of the President for the development he brought to Nigeria generally. Daura noted that the projects executed in Daura during the President’s tenure included the Police Children and Basic School, Government Secondary School, Dumurkol, projects intervention at Dr Yusuf Bala Usman College, Daura, Ear, Nose and Throat Hospital, Dumurkol, renovation of Rjiyar Dadi Comprehensive Health Centre, Construction of Primary Health Centre, Maiadua, NALDA Integrated Farm, renovation of cottage industry and construction of Nigeria Immigration Service forward operation base. He appealed for the completion of the Sabke irrigation project, Muhammadu Buhari E-Library of the Federal Medical Centre, construction of 330KV substation, police secondary school, and construction of five-kilometre roads in each of the four Local Government Areas of Daura Emirate. He also called for the conversion of NALDA Integrated Farm to National Demonstration Farm. The DECA chairman said, “President Muhammadu Buhari deserves our commendation and prayers because during his tenure, Daura has benefited a lot in the area of infrastructural development.’’ He also called for more projects to be sited in the town, adding “On behalf of the people of Daura Emirate, we call on the ministers who have yet to show their presence in Daura to do so immediately. We are also appealing for the immediate relocation of the Federal Medical Centre from Katsina to Daura, extension of Railway Line from Kano to Daura-Katsina-Maradi, commencement of dual carriageway from Kano to Kongwalam, completion of Children Hospital constructed by Belema Foundation, more projects intervention at the Federal Polytechnic Daura, renovation of Daura Emir’s Palace, construction of more roads, drainages with streetlights and commencement of work at the proposed mobile police unit site.” Also speaking, another Daura resident and lawyer, Ado  Lalu,  stated that infrastructural developments were key in attaining sustainable development to facilitate socio-economic growth and improve the living standards of the people. “There is no doubt that Daura the hometown of (the) President, (Major General) Muhammadu Buhari (retd) is witnessing infrastructural developments such as the Airforce Reference Hospitals, Federal Polytechnic Daura,, Federal University of Transportation, Police Children School and township roads. “Those who feel Daura is getting too much are not fair to the people of Daura compared to other places that had been opportune to have their sons as number one citizen of Nigeria. “The Airforce Reference Hospital does not belong or is exclusively made for Daura people. It is open to everyone who wants to patronise it and people from the neighbouring states have been coming there. It was constructed based on the good gestures of a former Chief of Air Staff. “As for the Federal Polytechnic Daura, the late Senator Mustapha Bukar who represented Katsina North Senatorial Zone laid its foundation by sponsoring a bill for the establishment of a federal polytechnic in Daura which scaled the second reading before his untimely death and the process was completed by his successor, Senator Ahmed Kaita. The efforts made by our senators resulted into the establishment of the polytechnic which is purely legislative efforts. “As for the establishment of the Federal University of Transportation, Daura, to me, it is a dream come true. During our meeting, I brought up the idea to request the establishment of the Federal University of Science and Technology Daura but the Almighty in His infinite wisdom brought us the Federal University of Transportation and we are grateful to Him and the government. “However, to our greatest dismay, some prominent Nigerians have attacked the establishment of the Federal University of Transportation, Daura thereby treating the people of Daura as outcasts who do not deserve any institution. Among them are those who always attack President Buhari that he has been a governor, a minister and head of state but in his hometown but there was no presence of federal institutions in Daura. Those who think Daura has got enough because of the institutions should fear the Almighty. If (the) President, (Major General) Muhammadu Buhari (retd) were to be another person who does not care for due process and is not prudent with resources, Daura would have witnessed more than its current level of development.” In his comment, a civil servant in the town, Sanusi Daura, noted that there was no doubt that the administration of the Buhari had attracted infrastructural development to the area. He said, “As the son of the soil, he has obligations to see that he leaves something behind for his people which we appreciate and thank God Almighty. Those who are making a noise that Daura is getting too much, I can say they are biased, selfish and attention-seekers. To me, if you develop Daura, are you developing Niger or Chad Republics? Are we not Nigerians? Therefore, any infrastructural development in our area is because we are Nigerians and deserve to be considered in this regard particularly as we are discriminated against as a minority in the state. He added that the issue of infrastructural developments in Daura was overblown by alarmists envious of anything good among the people of Daura. He noted, “Let me take them one after the other. People make too much noise about Airforce Reference Hospital, Daura but I can say that they never find time to visit the hospital which is open to everyone in Daura, neighbouring communities and states. It is not made for people of Daura alone but for everybody that can afford the services. Therefore, the noise is baseless and uncalled for. “Also, we have the newly established 171 Nigerian Army Battalion built to enhance our national security along land borders. It is a well established standard all over the world that security agencies are positioned close to borders to protect territorial boundaries against internal and external aggressions. Daura is situated along international borders that have a long history before the coming of colonial masters as a result of trans-Saharan which deserves standard border security formations as we see in other nations. This battalion is long overdue.’’ He further stated that the Federal Polytechnic Daura was initiated by the late senator representing Katsina North, Mustapha Bukar, notig that the essence of it was to provide easy access to education at affordable rates to the masses. Sanusi stated, “If you visit this institution, you will see that the staff members and students are from different parts of the country. There was no point for anyone to raise an eyebrow because of the institution. The fourth is the Federal University of Transportation, Daura which generates heated debates out of envy but it is not meant exclusively for Daura indigenes alone but for all Nigerians. Lastly, the debates over the construction of township roads if not borne out of hatred what is township roads compared to what people in other places got?’’ But a socio-political activist, Mr Deji Adeyanju, differed from the positions of the President’s kinsmen. He noted that the siting of the projects in Daura showed sycophancy and was counterproductive. He added, “It’s unfortunate that we are now personalising the constitutionality of government in our country. This is what the Daura situation has presented itself and it’s unfortunate also that we refuse to learn from history. When other presidents were in power, similar things were done.  Daura is going to be deserted once Buhari leaves office. Sycophancy does not respect people outside the office. When most parts of the country are undeveloped, what is the economic viability of the projects? “If you look at it holistically, the President himself may not be able to live in Daura when his tenure ends because of insecurity. It’s just the personalisation of the Office of the President that is responsible for this ugly trend.’’ Speaking further, he stated that the office of the president should not be personalised for sycophants who would go to any length to do “eye service” for their own people. “Nigeria has not benefited enough, Katsina and the North, in general, have not benefited from the Buhari presidency,’’ he added. Another activist, Mr Juwon Sanyaolu, who is a representative of the Socialists Workers and Youth League and the #TakeItBack Movement, said that the projects were pure eye service. Sanyaolu stated, “I can tell you that the projects are not even favourable to the ordinary people of Daura, who are impoverished and lack basic amenities. I was in Daura in 2018. At the time, those people complained that they had no electricity for years.’’ Also speaking on the issue, a Lagos-based political analyst and social critic, Adekunle Ajayi claimed that efforts were put in developing Daura than most places in Katsina. Ajayi said, “Many of what they did is hypocritical. One should not be surprised if after Buhari leaves office many of the schools and projects are abandoned. That is what happened with a former president when many people ran to show loyalty by establishing projects in his hometown. There is a way the ruling class in Nigeria copies themselves in terms of governance.’’ Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com