Two persons have been burnt to death in a tanker explosion that occurred along the Umunya Road on the Enugu-Onitsha Expressway on Tuesday. It was gathered that the tanker fell inside a gutter after the driver lost control and immediately went up in flames. The unidentified driver of a Mack tanker with no registration number which was laden with PMS and an Urban shuttle Bus with no registration number were involved in the fatal road crash. According to an eyewitness report, the tanker driver was on top speed, lost control, and rammed into the shuttle from behind, and exploded with both vehicles catching fire. This created panic in the area as the incident occurred near a filling station, located at the popular Odumodu Junction, Umunya in Oyi Local Government Area. It also caused a gridlock on the ever-busy road. Five male adults were involved in the crash while two male adults, were killed with one person burnt beyond recognition. Three person’s escaped rescued unhurt. The men of the state fire service were at the scene and battled to quench the fire while passersby who trooped out in their numbers also assisted. As of the time of filing this report, the fire service has been able to put off the fire. Meanwhile, the deceased victims have been handed over to the police personnel from Oyi Division Nteje by a team of the Federal Road Safety Corps, RS5.33 Nteje Unit Command. The FRSC rescue team was still on the ground managing traffic and ensuring obstructions caused by the crash is removed. The state Sector Commander, Corps Commander Adeoye Irelewuyi, commiserated with the families of the victims and prayed for the deceased. Irelewuyi warned motorists to avoid overspeeding and ensure they keep to the recommended speed limit.
“Speed drills but kills check your speed and not your watch. Let us keep our road safe from crash,” he warned. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com