A former Senate President and presidential aspirant on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party, Bukola Saraki, on Friday, said he was more experienced than other presidential aspirants in the party. Saraki, who spoke in Owerri, Imo State, while addressing the state chapter of the PDP ahead of the May 28/29 Presidential primary of the main opposition party, said he was the right man for the country’s top job. He said that his antecedents as a technocrat and an ex-governor of Kwara State and former senate president had positioned him as the best person to fly the flag of the PDP for the 2023 presidential election. He, however, said as a good party man, he would support anybody who emerged the flag bearer of the party. Saraki said that the president, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), had run the country astray. He said, “Things are not easy in Nigeria. Issues we face today as a nation are many. Nigeria is tilting towards a failed nation. Security and poverty have no tribe. Nigeria has never been so disunited. Nigeria needs a president that can be a bridge between the North and the South. Bridge between Muslims and Christians. “Nigeria needs a president that understands the issues. My past has shown that I am a man that understands the issues. I was persecuted for supporting the South-East to produce my deputy when I was the senate president. “I am a detribalised Nigerian. As a senate president, I stood for what was right. My experience puts me high above other aspirants. I have both the executive and legislative experiences to lead Nigeria, and the private sector experience too. Restructuring can’t just happen. You need a president who is courageous to do that. As a senate president I said that fuel subsidy was a scam. I have the courage to lead Nigeria. “South-East and North-Central have not produced president. If somebody from the South-East emerges, I will support the person. Nigeria needs a team player to unite Nigeria. I am a team player. “I will be a president for one Nigeria. I fight for equal rights and justice. If I become president, I will work to ensure that a South Eastern becomes president because that is what will heal this country. “It is time to develop the non-oil sector. For years we have depended solely on oil. My administration will train one million youths yearly to aid in production.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com