Ahead of the primary of the All Progressives Congress, the Governor of Borno State, Babagana Zulum, has assured a business mogul and presidential aspirant, Tein Jack-Rich that he (Jack-Rich) would not disappoint be disappointed. According to him, the people of Borno State were appreciative of the visible footprints and humanitarian strides of Jack-Rich in the state. A statement issued on Sunday evening by the media office of Jack-Rich said Zulum stated these while playing host to the APC presidential aspirant and his entourage at the Government House in Maiduguri. They were on a consultative visit to the state to meet with stakeholders and delegates of the party ahead of the presidential primary scheduled for May 29 and 30, 2022. Jack-Rich was accompanied to the state by the Director-General of his campaign organisation and former Governor of Bauchi State, Mallam Isa Yuguda, and members of the campaign team as well as an APC chieftain from Sokoto State, Senator Abubakar Umar Gada. The statement quoted the oil mogul as pledging to bring a lasting solution to the seemingly intractable security challenges bedeviling the state. Jack-Rich also vowed to address the problems militating against the ease of doing business in Borno in order to attract private sector investments if he emerged as President in 2023. Zulum said with gratitude to the people-oriented projects executed by Jack-Rich in parts of the state. According to the governor, these included a world-class portable water facility of 250,000 litre capacity each at Gonidangari and Shehuri North in Maiduguri as well as the ongoing ultra-modern Faculty of Engineering and 180-bed capacity hotel projects at the Nigerian Army University in Biu. He said the projects had significantly alleviated the sufferings of displaced communities in the state and had endeared Jack-Rich to the people of the state. The governor said, “Jack-Rich is not new to Borno State, you executed very big water projects, two of them inside Maiduguri, one in Shehuri-North and another in Gonidangari. The Water Project is one of the multi-million naira projects that has been done by you, and this has gone a long way in alleviating the sufferings of displaced communities in our state. Furthermore, you have forgotten to mention that you are also a traditional title holder in Borno State. “Once again let me use this opportunity to convey our deepest appreciation and to assure you that the people of Borno State are happy with you and Insha Allah, in the fullness of time, we shall not disappoint you.” Zulum maintained that Jack-Rich is eminently qualified and has the capacity and wherewithal to become the president of Nigeria and move the country forward. The governor expressed hope that the Borno State APC delegates would make a wise decision to ensure that the right presidential candidate emerged at the primary. He said, “We have been receiving many presidential aspirants, I want to tell you that I’m a man of my word, I don’t talk too much, and I’m a man of reality. We have been waiting for all the presidential aspirants to come so we can assess their potential with a view to taking a decision that will move the nation forward.” “Many of us share in your thoughts, and by your statement, what you are saying is from your heart. We believe you have the capacity, we believe you have the wherewithal and the agility to move the nation forward. “Honestly speaking, from the bottom of my heart, I know that Borno State delegates know that you (Jack-Rich) can move the nation forward, and I hope the delegates will take wise decisions to ensure that the right candidate is put in place as the presidential candidate of our great party.” Zulum stressed the need for all presidential aspirants to unite after the primaries and work towards the victory of the party in the 2023 general election. He also observed that deepening internal democracy, peacebuilding, and national cohesion are key to national development. “The most important thing I will like to stress is the unity of the party. The unity of our party is very important and I believe whatever the outcome is, after the primary, we have to come together to see that our party wins the national government. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com