Former Senate President, Dr Bukola Saraki, on Friday, bemoaned current security challenges in Nigeria, insisting that his priorities would be tackling insecurity and unemployment while ensuring massive food production if he is elected President in 2023. He gave the assurance while addressing delegates, leaders and executives of the Katsina State chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party at the state headquarters of the party in Katsina. Saraki, who joined the 2023 presidential race under the PDP, told the gathering that the situation was not that bad when the party was in government at the national level. He recalled that in 2005 and 2006, he and his team travelled from Katsina by road to Zamfara through Jibia without security challenges, maintaining that the situation had since degenerated. The former two-time governor of Kwara State said he saw Katsina as his home, adding that if he becomes the President, he would be equally representing Katsina. He declared, “Katsina is my home. I have only come here to tell my brothers and sisters in Katsina of my ambition to become Nigeria’s President in 2023. If I become Nigeria’s President with your support, it is Katsina that has also become the President. “Many Presidential aspirants will come here to meet you but tell them that you have known me for a long time and we have been together and we understand one another. Tell them I am your President. “Security today in Nigeria is terrible. If I become the President, I will tackle insecurity; ensure that the safety of Nigerians is my priority; I will also create jobs and ensure that our farmers produce food massively for our people. Health will also be accorded priority. Our hospitals will be working again and health care delivery will be free. Nigeria will be okay again under my Presidency and we shall do it together.” A former Governor of Katsina State and a PDP chieftain, Shehu Shema, in his remarks, described the former Senate President as vibrant, educated, and politically exposed, adding that Saraki would be a competent President for Nigeria. “Dr Abubakar Bukola Saraki represents a perfect version of a true Nigerian. He is young; He is educated; He is vibrant and politically exposed. And if Saraki is given the opportunity to become Nigeria’s President, he would perform well. As Muslims, we however believe that it is only Allah who can put someone in the position of authority. But we wish him success in his ambition,” Shema stated. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com