Tech Mogul, Elon Musk, has announced that he is setting up a “hardcore litigation department” following claims of sexual harassment levelled against him. Calling for applications via his Twitter account on Friday, Musk stated that he was looking for “hardcore street fighters” who would report directly to him. “Tesla is building a hardcore litigation department where we directly initiate and execute lawsuits. The team will report directly to me,” he tweeted. “Please send three to five bullet points describing evidence of exceptional ability.” In the series of tweets, the billionaire highlighted his commitments as regards the department stating, “We will never seek victory in a just case against us, even if we will probably win. “We will never surrender/settle an unjust case against us, even if we will probably lose.” Musk’s announcement came after Business Insider published an article on Thursday, alleging that the SpaceX founder sexually harassed a flight attendant in 2016. The publication read in part, “The attendant worked as a member of the cabin crew on a contract basis for SpaceX’s corporate jet fleet. “She accused Musk of exposing his erect penis to her, rubbing her leg without consent, and offering to buy her a horse in exchange for an erotic massage, according to interviews and documents obtained by Insider. “The incident, which took place in 2016, is alleged in a declaration signed by a friend of the attendant, and prepared in support of her claim. “In November 2018, Musk, SpaceX and the flight attendant entered into a severance agreement granting the attendant a $250,000 payment in exchange for a promise not to sue over the claims,” Musk had however denied the allegation, tagging the publication a “politically motivated hit piece.” “And, for the record, those wild accusations are utterly untrue. But I have a challenge to this liar who claims their friend saw me “exposed” – describe just one thing, anything at all (scars, tattoos) that isn’t known by the public. She won’t be able to do so, because it never happened,” he tweeted on Friday. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com