MORE power. More money. More houses. More control. More. And more. And more. They have acquired much but they still want more. No matter how much they accumulate or achieve, the spirit of more still lurks out there in the dark cabinet of the human mind. More always exists. More is the unquenchable raging inferno in human bones. It is a blizzard of conflagration in a covetous man’s marrows. Can a man put out the fire of more that burns in him? Homo sapiens are never satisfied until they get more that’s never enough. And then I ask myself; is wanting more really a bad vibe? Is wanting and getting more not a part of the growth process? Who among us doesn’t want more of something gratifying? What newlywed does not want more money to keep love and home afloat? What businessman will declare that he’s had enough of making more from his booming business? What CEO sets up a business outfit and hopes he makes less profit? Human desires are always around the spirit of more. Divinity has not yet found a way around satisfying created beings. Human wants are insatiable. We live and do business in a global culture where we are never satisfied. We want more gold. We want more clothing. We want more. Preachers want more members. They want more in wealth expansion. Politicians want more followers. They want more power and more men to subjugate and control. You may ask what more a billionaire businessman wants that makes him keep amassing wealth. The pursuit of more defines our entire global society. We all want more. But in our appetency for more, must we lose our commonsense? What more does a kingmaker want in wanting to be the king? Why does the honeybee leave his honey pot to grope around in a pot of palm wine where it eventually dies? What is it looking for? What is it about more power than even men with pervading power want more and more? If your daily needs are met and your bills are paid; if you have been divinely fingered to be a blessing to those around you with relative ease, why hanker for more and more that moves men fast into the morgue? Some are just greedy beings. Greed.  Call it what you wish in any linguistic tongue of your choosing. Brand it what you want, it is known by sundry nomenclatures. Avarice. Avidity, Rapacity. Covetousness. They all descend from the same genre. The demonic desire to dig in for more. The zest to salivate for what you have no need for even when you have enough. In many nations, greed is the crowned king. In many palaces, greed is the sceptre. For those who drool and slobber after power, greed is the desired dopamine. They are sick, yet they strive to lead a sick nation. They are foolish, yet they want to lead the wise. They are empty, yet they want to champion causes for people full of salvaging ideas.  For those who think they can live forever, greed is their tranquilliser. Greed is a geek among men of influence. And with men of affluence, it is an intoxicant. They have enough yet want more. They have in sufficiency, yet give no hoot about those in lack. Their preoccupation is to occupy slots of power and then drain more from those who are dying from not enough and dearth. For those who want more, enough is never enough. They are addicted to greed. They derive surreal gratification as they constantly seek more and more. “More” is the keyword of their addiction to more by all means necessary. The “ante” for getting enough of their craving must continually be raised. The drive for more is on the pulpit in the courts of pastors and bishops of bling. It is in the pew with selected ogrish few. Greed also sits on the prayer mat of Islamic clerics. Of course, you find it too in the purlieu of political authority and veranda of decrees. That is a comfy home for the foul spirit of more. The foul spirit of more finds acolytes and friends in strange places innumerable. Audacious greed-laden pursuit of power, in its audacity, manipulativeness and gross insensitivity to the needs and feelings of others are the ingredients of greed. For greed freaks among us who became multi-millionaires and billionaires through stealing of our commonwealth, their mega-fortune quest really has no endpoint. They won’t be able to name the definitive “millionth” or “billionth” that, finally, will do it for them. They can’t because the means by which they reap their riches has itself become the end. When is enough, enough? For those who want to die before their time, enough will never be enough! Okay, you want more. But, must you kill yourself? As for me, I have no fight to fight to garner riches. I have no battle to wage for wild wealth. I am only here to do my part, then wait on God of heaven who never fails in fulfilling His. Those who fight to get rich before the clock of God ticks ends up being the biggest losers in the battle. Examples are all around us. Wanting more by every means necessary gives birth to many body ailments. Wanting more by every means necessary is a major illness killing many before time. My parents taught me how to make a living and how to live. How to make a living is how to make enough resources to help navigate through the present and into the future. How to make a living emphasises needs and not wants. A lot of things many people want more of are what they don’t need. I conclude with this thought. The destined assignment of a ship is fully fulfilled while it sails on waters, on rivers and upon vast oceans. Water keeps the ship afloat.  But as a result of brash negligence and apathy to masterful maintenance, the vessel may drown out in a debilitating disaster if water seeps in. What sustains the ship may also be the cause of ineluctable demise if water finds its way into its belly. Getting more may be a necessity for some business and life moves but if you allow it to enter your hearts, what was once a means of living may become a means of destruction. Often enough I ask myself when I desire more: “Has the water entered my ship?” Ask yourself the same question. That introspective enquiry of self may be all you need to fight the foul spirit of more. Twitter: @Folaojotweet  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com