Acting Rector of the Federal Polytechnic, Offa, Kwara State, Dr Olarongbe Afolabi, has advised students of the school against joining the bandwagon of ‘get rich quick’ or ‘yahoo yahoo’ group. Afolabi gave the advice during the matriculation of 8,000 new students admitted for the National Diploma and Higher National Diploma Courses in the 2021/2022 Academic session. The rector counselled students to face their studies as they had no other business in the school other than their studies and urged them to study and develop their character. “Do not be enticed by joining the bandwagons of ‘get rich quick yahoo yahoo’. Do not destroy your glorious destiny, do not cut short your life. Please refrain from this part of destruction, it is the blessings of God that makes rich and does not lead to sorrow. “Please, obey the rules and regulations of this Polytechnic as spelt out in the students’ handbook. There are stiffer punishments and at times outright expulsion if you violate these rules,” he said. He said, “The polytechnic also have dress code for all students and there is a handbook on dress code which states clearly the acceptable and unacceptable dress mode for students. “Some of the unacceptable dressing styles are ‘marlian’ dressing, wearing of tattered crazy jeans, wearing of rubber slippers,, sagging of trousers, tattooing of body, piercing of nose or any part of the body except the ears (for female only), wearing of earrings by male, hair tinting or colouring of hair attachments etc. These are forbidden on all our campuses and attract serious sanction for violator.” “The polytechnic runs 28 ND and 29 HND programmes which are fully accredited and taught by seasoned lecturers with the state of art laboratories and equipment. The Polytechnic is one of the few top Polytechnics in Nigeria with the highest number of PhD holders, our staff capacity is equally boosted to enable them impart positively in the lives of the students.’’  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com