I witnessed a lot while helping out with mama’s hospital-stay and what I can say is that the mortality rate in Nigeria is high now. Three deaths; two males and a female in their middle age, within 24 hours. You have no idea what a BLESSING it is to be in good health in these times. I saw both the old and the young including a teenage school girl there fighting for their lives. The incident that I witnessed while outside for fresh breeze involved a teenage boy’s reaction when he was informed that his mum has given up the ghost. He immediately lunged at the father, apparently remembering past hurts of the mum in the hands of the man. I took him to the side and just kept tapping him on the shoulder to calm down. He had no words, only tears that wouldn’t stop brimming.  I also felt sorry for the father. What could be worse than carrying the corpse of someone you have a history with? The thoughts racing through his mind must be torturing! That’s when you begin to blame yourself for issues that were your fault and those that were not. As I observed these bodies being carried into a waiting ambulance, I told myself that everyone deserves to witness such ends if only to jolt us into a rethink about life, generally. The sudden flurry of activities and battery of tests happening when a patient slides into a critical condition makes it difficult not to ask what they have been treating all along. Considering the fact that the patient had been in their care and NO TEST was done before they began to ‘’treat.’’ With ill health (that has necessitated a hospital visit), does a doctor buy time before deploying his best practices? I see the frustration of a patient’s relations and it’s difficult not to put myself in their shoes. I saw nurses who had the mind to say to someone who’s watching life ebb from their loved one, “stop disturbing me. He is not the only patient here.” Part of the social responsibility of corporate organisations and NGOs should be organising summits on the need to NURSE WITH HUMANITY for our nursing community, frankly! It’s often hinted that many doctors with private practices are also consultants at the general hospitals. Considering the orderliness in the private settings, not many people want to touch the general hospitals with a 10-foot pole. But the fact remains that NOT everyone can afford a private hospital and for that reason, I appeal to every medical doctor that is part of a general hospital to make efforts to uplift the standard (starting with the availability of basic amenities) of the general hospitals. Even if all you do is suggest “the way forward’’ to the management. And if in a management position, please use the funds for what they are intended for. There are various ways to do the work of God, besides carrying the Bible and standing on the pulpit! Making a difference in any setting you find yourself is one way to do the work of God. The last time I visited someone at a teaching hospital in Anambra State, I found the environment VERY depressing and yet to stop asking where the conscience of the management is. The hospital rooms were smelly and I was told it’s because there was “no water.” Anyway, if you are looking for how to engage the extra time you have in your hands, I suggest you try hospital visitation. There’s nothing that uplifts the spirit of someone on a sick bed like having a total stranger walk in to pray for them or leave words of encouragement with them.And our hospitals are filled with people who need such efforts right now.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com