The Federal Capital Territory Police Command said it has beefed up security in Abuja in the build-up to the presidential primaries of the Peoples Democratic Party slated for Saturday and Sunday at the Moshood Abiola National Stadium, Abuja. The event was expected be characterised by a high influx of people into the nation’s capital, particularly party stakeholders who would be participating in the elections. The command said it has designed a robust security arrangement defined by a deployment of officers’ across the city, ahead of the primary elections. The command’s Commissioner of Police, Babaji Sunday, while briefing the Divisional Police Officers, and heads of various Tactical and Intelligence Units of the Command on Thursday, said the deployment prioritised the protection of lives and property of all residents during and after the exercise. He said, “The Peoples Democratic Party’s primary election is scheduled to hold from May 28 to May 29 at the Moshood Abiola National Stadium. The event is projected to be characterised by a high influx of people into the Federal Capital Territory. “Consequent upon the above and in a bid to ensure a hitch-free event, the FCT Police Command has designed a robust security arrangement defined by a generous deployment within and without the election ground and to every nook and cranny of the territory. “The deployment prioritises the protection of lives and property of all and sundry by emplacing counter-insurgency measures, maintenance of clear road access, robust stop-and-search at strategic points around the suburbs and city centre, effective crowd control, and intelligence gathering but to mention a few.” Sunday, while admonishing the officers, charged them to respect the rights of citizens as they go about their duties. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com