The Prelate of the Methodist Church Nigeria, Samuel Kanu-Uche, whom gunmen kidnapped on Sunday along with the Methodist Bishop of Owerri, Rt. Rev. Dennis Mark, and the Prelate’s Chaplain, have regained their freedom. The Police Public Relations Officer, Abia State Command, Geoffrey Ogbonna, confirmed the release of the victims to one of our correspondents on Monday. He said, “They have regained their freedom but details are not yet available.” Ogbonna, however, noted that he could not give details as to whether a ransom was paid to secure the release of the kidnapped victims or not. The PUNCH had reported that the cleric and the two other victims were returning from a programme in the Umunneochi Local Government Area of Abia State when the gunmen laid a siege to their vehicles and whisked them away. As the news of the kidnapping became public knowledge, it threw the Methodist Church, the Christian Association of Nigeria, among other religious bodies, into prayer for their safe return home. The Senator representing Abia North at the National Assembly, Orji Uzor Kalu, also pleaded with Imo and Abia States to ensure the release of the Prelate and the other two other victims. However, in a statement on Monday, the Secretary of the Conference, the Rt. Revd. (Dr.) Michael Akinwale, said the abductors demanded N100m ransom for the release of the kidnapped clerics. The statement read in part: “The devastating news of the abduction of our Prelate, the Bishop of Owerri, and the Prelate’s Chaplain has left everybody in shock. “This is a period of trial in which the Church must cry out that ‘The Lord that answereth by Fire’ must be our God to destroy all the manipulations of the adversary. “Let us all arise and cry out to the Lord! As we engage in Prayer Warfare, this serves to notify you that the abductors have demanded a ransom of N100m. “In view of the urgency and the dire need to arrest the situation for the safety of our Prelate and other abductees, it has become imperative to seek your urgent response to raise the N100m ransom. “The safety of the Prelate and other abductees must be of paramount concern to all, and your contributions spiritually and monetarily shall not go unrewarded.” Meanwhile, the Christain Association of Nigeria, in a statement signed by Pastor Adebayo Oladeji, the Special Assistant, Media and Communications, to the CAN President, Rev. Dr Samson Ayokunle, condemned the abduction as he called on the Federal Government and security agencies to stop the incessant abduction of clerics and other innocent Nigerians forthwith. “This is no more a country one can be proud of. No reasonable government can continue to leave the citizens in a terrible state of insecurity as we are presently. This situation is not good for our nation at all,” the statement read in part.  Contact: theeditor@punchng.com Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com