no nation develops without skilling its workforce. Many developed nations have industrial academies where citizens are trained to meet 21st-century challenges. In Italy, Arsutoria School trains students in technical details of shoe and bag making. The effect of schools like Arsutoria is that Italy’s leather exports have increased over the years. Italy exported shoes and bags worth 2.047 billion euros in 2021, according to the country’s National Institute of Statistics. Similarly, India earned $1.6 billion from leather between April and August 2021, according to the Council for Leather Exports in the country, thanks to academies like Shoes and Bag Designing College in the South Asian country. In Nigeria, Chinwe Florence Ezenwa, an entrepreneur, chartered librarian and maritime safety expert, is replicating this. She set up Lelook Bags Academy with a view to skilling Nigerian women on bag-making skills and helping to industrialise Nigeria and increase its non-oil export earnings. “My passion and mission are to educate and empower women and youths with bag-making skills to complement the fashion and creative industry as entrepreneurs who would start, build and grow a profitable, scalable and sustainable businesses, with an attitude of perseverance, not perfection,” she said, in response to questions. She explained that the economy of any country could only appreciate in value if the people were wealth creators and problem solvers. The retired civil servant who worked in the Ministry of Education, Ministry of Agriculture, Ministry of Transport and the Police Service Commission said she envisaged a lot of opportunities with Africa Free Trade Continental Agreement (AFCTA), which Nigeria assented to in 2020. “I envisage a lot of opportunities with Africa Free Trade Continental Agreement (AFCTA and I decided to raise an army of women entrepreneurs that can support that initiative from Nigeria. It is our vision to have Lelook Ltd as the foremost bag manufacturer in Nigeria and Africa,” she noted. She said Lelook Bags Academy was courageously committed to inculcating bag-making skills into women and youths. “The driving mantra is for them to think and produce locally and market nationally, regionally, continentally and globally,” Ezenwa said. She said the academy trained women and youths to grow, build and scale businesses that had the capacity for contributing to economic development. The academy planned to be the foremost centre for the acquisition of bag-making skills for women empowerment while teaching them life and soft skills. The bag academies are located in Abuja (Lugbe), Lagos and Enugu. The academy has graduated 25 students, and trainees spend six months learning these skills. “We have graduated two sets, one in Abuja and one in Lagos. They are off the job market and are practising all they were taught. Our monitoring and evaluation index on them shows a healthy green. It is still work in progress as we continue to hand-hold them to fully get stabilised in the local market,” she explained. The entrepreneur said the last batch of students went away with start-up kits as they were sponsored by Spotlight Initiative, a programme under United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA). She disclosed that the academy was collaborating with the Nigerian Export Promotion Council and the Ministry of Women Affairs on this initiative. Given Nigeria’s unemployment rate estimated by the National Bureau of Statistics at 33.3 per cent, the 71-year-old entrepreneur said there was a need for more training centres such as this in the country – sponsored by the government. “We also encourage the private sector to lead in partnership with training centres like ours, as long as the government can provide the necessary infrastructure.” On the level of investment in the academy, she said that a lot of investment had gone into establishing the Lelook Bags Academy, including in structural infrastructure, human resources, machinery and emotional intelligence. She said, “This is huge and unquantifiable, which will leave a strong footprint in the sands of time. Since my goal is to give back to society, helping to form young women and girls whom I do not know and may never know, this vision will definitely outlive me.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com