Many people were injured on Wednesday in Idanre, in the Idanre Local Government Area of Ondo State, after suspected political thugs attacked members of the ruling All Progressives Congress. PUNCH Metro gathered that the victims, who were supporters of a House of Assembly aspirant, Tosin Ogunlowo, were returning from the party secretariat in Akure, the state capital, when the hoodlums allegedly waylaid and attacked them with guns and cutlasses. An eyewitness stated that the thugs attacked the politicians, who were in a convoy of four vehicles, at Italorun village along the Idanre-Akure Road. “The aspirant was returning from Akure to Idanre, where she went to submit her nomination form with her supporters. So, along the road, the thugs came out and attacked them with guns, cutlasses and broken bottles and they inflicted injuries on her supporters. They also vandalised the vehicles in the convoy,” the eyewitness said. He, however, noted that the aspirant escaped unhurt while those injured were rushed to the hospital for treatment. One of the victims, Mr Gbodi Bamidele, who is also the leader of the Idanre LGA Legislative Council, said the attack was sponsored. He said, “When we got to Oja Anaye, one of the thugs called Prof. came with others to attack us. They came with guns, bottles of beer and cutlasses. Our members were seriously injured.” The state Police Public Relations Officer, Mrs Funmilayo Odunlami, confirmed the incident, adding it was a fight between supporters of two political aspirants in the area. She said, “There was an altercation between supporters of two aspirants in the area, and it led to a shootout; the police from the Idanre division were able to maintain peace, while the victims were taken to a hospital.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com