The All Progressives Grand Alliance has restated that Dr. Victor Oye remains the national chairman of the party. The party, therefore, debunked the rumour making the rounds that the Supreme Court had purportedly reviewed the October 14, 2021 judgment it delivered on the matter. The party, in a statement signed by its National Legal Adviser, Sly Ezeokenwa, obtained on Wednesday, described as “utterly false and fictitious”, a story in the public domain, saying the apex court “coronated” one Chief Edozie Njoku as the National Chairman of APGA on May 9, 2022. Ezeokenwa pointed out that no such decision was delivered by the Supreme Court on May 9 or on any other date, describing it as the handiwork of “naysayers”. He stated that the Supreme Court in SC. 686/2021, merely held that the dispute over the national chairmanship of APGA is not justiciable and is not within the jurisdiction of the court. He stressed that APGA has notified the relevant security agencies to commence an investigation and the possible prosecution of those who may be found culpable in the forgery and mutilation of vital court judgments. The party assured its supporters and members of the public that there is no purported change whatsoever in the leadership of APGA, saying that Oye remains the national chairman of APGA and has not been removed by any court. The statement read in part, “Our attention has been drawn to an utterly false and fictitious story making the rounds wherein the Supreme Court purportedly reviewed its judgment delivered on the 14th day of October, 2021 dismissing the appeal brought by one Chief Jude Okeke against the judgment of the Court of Appeal, Kano Division. “In the story which has now gone viral on various social media platforms, the apex court was reported to have ‘coronated’ one Chief Edozie Njoku as the National Chairman of APGA. “We wish to state that contrary to the wishful thinking of the naysayers, no such decision was delivered by the Supreme Court on May 9, 2022 or on any other date. “It is on record that the Supreme Court in delivering its judgment aforesaid similarly dismissed the appeal brought by Chief Edozie Njoku against the ruling of the Kano Division of the Court of Appeal which dismissed his application to appeal as an interested party. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com