Chieftains of the All Progressive Congress in the Ughelli North Local Government Area of Delta State have applauded the family of late Chief David Dafinone saying that the desire to make Urhobo great runs in the family’s blood. They stated that “the Guinness Book of Record chartered accountants award-winning family of the late Chief David Dafinone is one family that has always had the pain of making the Urhobos great at heart.” The APC executives in the local government area spoke on Thursday while hosting Chief Ede Dafinone, a senatorial aspirant for the Delta Central Senatorial District, who visited them in continuation of his consultation to the party leaders across the district. Chief Igbre Benson, the Financial Secretary, who spoke on behalf of the party leaders, reeled out the remarkable achievements of the popular family, concluding that the visiting Ede Dafinone is “a true son of his father.” He said, “The Dafinone family is known all over the world. The father D.O.D. was known as a Super Senator for what he was doing for the people then. He was the chairman, Committee on Creation of States. In 1983, he recommended Delta State and Ughelli as the capital of the new state. Then in 1984, January 1st, the then President Shehu Shagari was to announce the creation of the state, only for the government to be overthrown on December 31st, 1983. And you would see that the blood of making Urhobo great is in the blood of the Dafinones.” Also, the APC Chairman, Ughelli South Local Government Area, Chief Isaiah Kekeje, assured that delegates from Ughelli South will support Ede Dafinone’s aspiration, noting that “he is one of the best 11 with an intimidating profile and wide tentacles that cut across Africa and the world.” Earlier in his own address, Ede Dafinone, who also visited Ughelli North, Ughelli South and Udu Local Government executives of the party respectively, explained his desire to improve on the achievements of the incumbent Deputy Senate President, Senator Ovie Omo-Agege. Ede Dafinone said, “I am not a newcomer as many may think. I have had experience in the political circle and business sector, so, I know I can represent you well and it will profit Urhobo nation if I am voted to represent the constituency in the 10th Senate, because I have the capacity to up the game. “Omo-Agege is leaving a big shoe that needs an experienced person with the requisite qualification, connection and experience to consolidate on the massive achievements of the Deputy President of the Senate.” Ede Dafinone appealed to the delegates to vote for him at the primary so that he could bring them a quality representation at the National Assembly in the next political dispensation. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com