The Emir of Gombe, Abubakar Shehu, has urged peaceful coexistence among farmers and herders in the state, saying that unity will help to achieve the much desired economic prosperity. Shehu made this call on Monday in his address during the Durbar ceremony, marking the end of the day-30 day Ramadan fast, where guests, including Governor Muhammadu Yahaya and expatriates were treated with a horse race display. The monarch, who doubles as Chairman, Council of Traditional Rulers in the state, revealed that Gombe had enjoyed peace due to various efforts put by the government in collaboration with traditional institutions. He also urged farmers to take advantage of the rain by involving in early farming to boost food sufficiency in the state, region and nation. Shehu stated, “I want to call on farmers in the state to engage in early farming activities and I want to encourage herders and farmers not to get involved in conflict. “The peaceful coexistence between the various ethnic groups in Gombe State should be maintained.” The monarch also called for support for the current administration, while lauding the various intervention projects geared towards improving the lives of residents. “I want to thank the governor for the developmental projects across the state,” Shehu added. Meanwhile, in a Sallah message shortly after prayer at the Eid ground, Governor Yahaya, at the state banquet hall, called on people to replicate the lessons of the fast in daily living. Yahaya urged residents not to lose sight in face of the current socio-economic and security challenges bedevilling the country, but to remain resolute and prayerful with faith that the nation’s trying moment would be over and Nigeria would emerge stronger and more united. ”Eid-el-Fitr festival connotes sacrifice, selflessness, love and obedience to the tenets of Islam. I, therefore, enjoin us to draw enduring lessons from the Ramadan and show love to one another as well as promote harmony and peaceful coexistence among our diverse people. “The same way we all remembered the less privileged and those afflicted by poverty during Ramadan, I implore us to carry over these attributes beyond Ramadan,” Yahaya said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com