A youth group in Nasarawa state under the aegis of Coalition Of Youth from Lafia/Obi Federal Constituency has advocated for women’s participation in politics for gender balance in governance, and more dividends of democracy. The Chairman of the group, Yarwa Ahmad, made the call in Lafia on Friday during a Press Conference and Endorsement Ceremony of a 36-year-old female aspirant, Hauwa Ibrahim, who recently joined the race to represent Lafia/Obi Federal Constituency at the House of Representatives, under the platform of the All Progressives Congress. Ahmed noted that since 1999, the constituency had yet to have a female representative at the National Assembly which was why they were supporting the aspirant to emerge victorious, given her experience and antecedents in the public and private sectors. He said, “Over the years, we have lacked women’s participation in politics. We know that women are good managers as we can see in our homes and if they are given the opportunity to serve in governance, Nasarawa state and indeed entire Nigeria will be a better place for all of us. “Women’s participation in politics will also create a gender balance in governance because we are aware that men have taken over the politics of Nasarawa state. The State House of Assembly is completely occupied by men. Even the State Executive Council is also occupied by men except for a few women. “This is why we the youth of Lafia/Obi Federal Constituency have gathered to show our support to Hon. Hauwa Nana Ibrahim for her ambition to represent us at the Federal House of Representatives in 2023. “Honourable Hauwa has done so much for our people through her several empowerment programmes that have lifted so many of her constituents from the shackles of poverty. She has a great love for us and we must stand by her to ensure that she emerges victorious in the forthcoming election. “So, we are appealing to the delegates who would be voting during the primary election of the All Progressives Congress, to give her a chance to ensure steady growth and development of our constituency.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com