A biopharmaceutical firm, Pfizer, has called for the early detection and treatment of arthritis. Speaking at a zoom meeting organised by Pfizer to highlight the prevalence and social burden of Rheumatoid Arthritis, Country Medical Director, Pfizer East, and West Africa, Dr. Kodjo Soroh, added that it was important to continue to raise awareness of the disease. “Rheumatoid arthritis remains one of the most common Rheumatic and Musculoskeletal Diseases (RMDs) in the region. However, there is hope, and we aim to continue raising awareness around the treatments available today.  We want to work closely with the healthcare community to ensure early diagnosis, increased patient access, and medication adherence. There is Project Afya, a patient assistance program aimed at improving access to life-saving medications and boosting cancer care and autoimmune disease management. In partnership with IQVIA, the platform is helping to reduce therapy costs for eligible patients as Rheumatologists identify patients for enrolment into the program”. Also speaking, Dr. Olaosebikan Hakeem of  Lagos State University College of Medicine said, “However, healthcare professionals, general physicians, and rheumatologists need to identify Rheumatoid arthritis early and commence appropriate therapy as soon as possible. “Rheumatoid arthritis affects the small joints of the hand, wrist, and feet before affecting larger joints and if left untreated can cause deformity and disability. With debilitating symptoms that include pain and stiffness, people with Rheumatoid arthritis are seen to have lower functional status. This disability can lead to a loss of career and sources of income, which is a particular problem in low-income settings.” Dr. Uyiekpan Ima-Edomwonyi of  Lagos University Teaching Hospital added that the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis would be possible if symptoms were noticed early. He added, “Treatment of Rheumatoid arthritis is ideally done as soon as possible when the patient starts with disease symptoms, but at any stage, the aim is to get the disease into remission or to have minimal signs and symptoms. This is to decrease the progression of joint disease as the disease process can cause progressive damage to joints with resultant loss of function, which in many patients, will mean that they are unable to fulfill work obligations or cope with activities at home.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com