The Proprietor, Oak Business School (Monotechnic), Dr Lance Elakama, has said writing a book is an act of giving back to society. Speaking at the public presentation of his three books namely, ‘The Grand Rules for the Journal of Life,’ ‘Principles in Practical Management,’ and ‘Starting and Running Your Own Business,’ Elakama advised young Nigerians and entrepreneurs to read stories of successful people, especially in their area of career and business. “Writing is an act of giving back to society. On that premise, I feel much fulfilled that through these books; I am giving back to society.  The truth is that writing a book is not an easy task. It requires dedication, determination, tenacity and the burning of the midnight oil. At a point, you develop inertia and stop writing altogether. “Young people do not like to read books but they must be encouraged to read. They must read to learn from successful people in their fields.” He also said there were three kinds of people, which are the givers, takers and matchers. The reviewer of ‘Starting and Running  Your Own Business,’ Sir Ike Onyechi,  recommended the book to marketing and sales professionals, saying it gave an analysis of how to build and succeed in business. “The book says there is no secret to success, when you fail, you fail forward. Failure is the way to success, pay your staff well, build the people and your people will build your business. Everyone should read this book; it should go to marketing and sales professionals.” Also, the reviewer of ‘The Grand Rules for the Journey of Life,’ Dr Micheal Fadeyi, said, ‘’Elakama in his book says you should learn from every situation and challenge. You must keep learning and learning.  Let’s try to understand our fellow humans because what annoys you in others is predominant in you, so you must be tolerant.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com