The Ondo Government has lamented that no fewer than 30,000 unregistered vehicles are plying the roads across the 18 local government areas of the state. According to the government, the non-registration of vehicles denied it revenues and also promoted insecurity as criminals often used unregistered vehicles to perpetrate crimes. The Special Adviser to Governor Rotimi Akeredolu on Transportation, Mr Tobi Ogunleye, stated this while speaking with our correspondent in Akure, the state capital. Ogunleye said that government had commenced comprehensive ‘stop and search’ to enforce proper traffic law while the defaulters would be dealt with according to the law. Expressing worry that most vehicles in the state did not have the required approval to be on the roads, Ogunleye explained that the ministry, in conjunction with other major stakeholders and the security agencies, would carry out the enforcement. He said, “ We cannot over-emphasise sensitivity or importance of transportation in human endeavour, and transportation is always having a man behind it and it is the man that is criminal. “We can only regulate activities of that man who is associated with transportation through proper documentation and data capturing. “In Ondo State today, from our rough data capturing so far, Ondo State has about 35,000 vehicles excluding Okadas and Keke Napep, which are supposed to register with the Ondo State Licensing Office but from our records, only about 3,000 vehicles are faithful in renewal or updating their documents. “So, we discovered this deficit and we want to sanitise our society from hoodlums. We are putting security and safety first. You are endangering other road users if you are using vehicles that are not road-worthy and properly documented.” Ogunleye, who pointed out that the exercise, would be continuous, said the development was not a new policy, saying, “We are just doing it comprehensively. It is a normal thing.” He appealed to those in positions of authority to cooperate with the government and allow the exercise be successful, asking them to encourage their kinsmen and supporters to obey rules and order.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com