Benue State Governor, Samuel Ortom, on Thursday said there was no time he promised to endorse any aspirant including his former Chief of Staff, Terwase Orbunde, as his successor. Ortom made the declaration during his meeting with stakeholders from Kwande, where his former Chief of Staff hails from. A statement issued by his Chief Press Secretary, Nathaniel Ikyur, said he had to make the clarification to dismiss insinuations by the former Chief of Staff that he had betrayed him after the party zoned the governorship position to Vandeikya. Ortom said, “Orbunde is my brother and friend. We have come a long way. That is why God told me in 1995 that he (Orbunde) will anchor my governorship campaign. So I came from Zaria where I was in school to inform him. When it was time, he joined me in 2015 to actualise my dream. “I never promised Orbunde or any of the aspirants that they will succeed me. I am not God to anoint anyone to be governor. “That is why I have allowed the process to be followed diligently. How could I have promised him that I will make him governor?” Ortom said with his vast experience in politics, coupled with guidance from God, he had to allow the stakeholders to select the candidate to brighten the chances of the party winning the election. The governor denied ever receiving any amount from his former Chief of Staff in the course of his governorship campaigns either in 2015 or 2019 as he had claimed. He noted that the private letter Orbunde wrote and brought to him in company of two elders from Kwande and Ushongo, demanding for a refund of N160m from the sale of his house in Abuja, which he later leaked to the social media, came to him as a shock, as he stressed,”Orbunde never gave me money during the governorship campaigns.” He called on those close to Orbunde to pray for him. The governor stated, “There is an assignment he said God sent him to do. He should go back to complete that assignment. I am sure God will uplift him.” On the forthcoming party primary elections into various elective positions, Ortom assured that a level playing field would be provided for those cleared to participate in the exercise as any form of rigging would be met with stiff resistance. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com