The remains of two persons were on Saturday recovered from the debris of a three-storey building which collapsed on Freeman Road on Lagos Island. It was learnt that the building, which was under construction, caved in during a heavy rainfall that pounded different parts of Lagos on Saturday. The collapsed building came less than three weeks after a three-storey building gave way on Ibadan Street in the Ebute Metta area of Lagos on May 1, killing 10 persons, including a member of the National Youth Service Corps identified only as Oluwakemi, and leaving about 24 occupants injured. However, the South-West Coordinator of the National Emergency Management Agency, Ibrahim Farinloye, said while two persons were recovered dead, some others were rescued alive. But there were concerns that an unconfirmed number of persons may be trapped. “A three-storey building under construction has just collapsed under the torrential rainfall on FreeRoad, Lagos Island. NEMA, LASEMA and fire service are on the ground,” Farinloye said earlier. The Director-General of the Lagos State Emergency Management Agency, Oluwafemi Oke-Osayintolu, who also confirmed the incident to our correspondent, said rescue efforts were still ongoing. Oke-Osayintolu said, “We have been able to rescue four people and we have recovered two bodies. They (the injured) were treated on the spot.” But according to a preliminary report by the Lagos State Emergency Management Agency, the building had been captured by the Lagos State Building Control Agency district office and served with all statutory notices, sealed at district and central enforcement levels. The report read added, “The agency responded to the above incident which was already in violation of building safety protocols. Further investigation determined that the developer had continued clandestine operations mostly at night and at the weekends.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com