The youth wing of the All Progressives Congress on Wednesday invited the 28 aspirants vying for the party’s presidential ticket to a town hall meeting ahead of the primaries. This was contained in a statement released in Abuja by the APC national youth leader, Dayo Israel. Israel disclosed that the two-day meeting scheduled to hold at APC Youths Presidential Town Hall in Abuja on May 27 would give the Nigerian youths insight into the plans each presidential aspirant has in store for them when elected. Although it is not certain if the big wigs, such as the national leader of the party, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu and Vice president Yemi Osinbajo and the remaining 26 presidential aspirants would be in attendance, Israel noted that the time has come for the organisation to prioritise the interest of the average Nigerian youths. The statement read, “In a few days, our party delegates will gather in Abuja at the Special Convention/Presidential Primaries to elect the Presidential Candidate of our Great party – The APC. While some of the aspirants have toured the country to address delegates, we observe very little engagement with the youth wing of our party. “It is our belief that as the highest voting bloc, with the advantage of our population and demography, it is expedient that we sit at the table with all APC Presidential aspirants and hear what they have for us as young progressives – if/when elected. “In light of this, the Office of the National Youth Leader will be convening a “2023 APC Presidential Aspirant Town Hall Meeting with Young progressives” with the Theme: What do you have for the youths? “On behalf of the youths of our party, I am using this medium to invite all our presidential aspirants to make themselves available for this special event.  Participants will be able to register to attend on a first-come, first-serve basis on https://youngprogressives.ng/presidentialtownhall/ when the website goes live.” This is even as Israel announced that the APC national youth wing had appointed members of the steering committee for the presidential town hall meeting. They include Sanusi Ohiare (Co-Chair), Idris Aregbe (Co-Chair), Barrister Winifred Chukka – Secretary, Oluwatoyin Fasanmi – Asst Secretary, Hon. Jamalu Kabiru (The Deputy National Youth Leader), Obidike Chukwuebuka, Hon Hafiz Abolaji Repete, Dada Olusegun, Damilola Apotieri, Ahmadu Jibril, Hadiza Abubakar Talba, Ibrahim Alli Balogun, Nkemkama Kama St Andy and Makinde Araoye. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com