A member of the All Progressives Congress in Kano State, Sagir Mai Iyali, has written a petition against the party’s aspirant, Bola Tinubu, seeking his disqualification by the Oyegun-led committee. Iyali in a letter dated May 17, 2022, demanded the disqualification over the former governor’s “questionable educational qualifications”. He also claimed that Tinubu allegedly submitted false documents to the Independent National Electoral Commission in 1998. Iyali said although Tinubu is above the required age to contest the office of president, his age is not known, adding that obscurity surrounding the presidential hopeful could jeopardise the party’s chances at the polls. It reads in part, “We understand that Bola Tinubu who has since procured his expression of interest and nomination forms and has submitted the same to the party has certain issues that clearly amount to a similar disqualification scenario. “From the information contained in prior submissions to INEC, particularly in 1999, Mr. Tinubu presented a false claim, on oath, of his attendance at the University of Chicago from 1972-1976. “It is clear now that these claims are false. Not only was this filed in the INEC form with a declaration on oath on December 20 1999, it was also contained in an affidavit of loss sworn to before the High Court of Lagos, Ikeja Registry, December 29, 1998.” The petition asked Tinubu to show proof he attended the University of Chicago or he must stand disqualified as the opposition is in possession of his questionable credentials. “Over the years, the identity of Asiwaju Bola Tinubu has been shrouded in secrecy. In fact, no one can claim to know the identity of the man. Repeated efforts and demands by the general populace and the media to unravel the identity of Asiwaju Tinubu have all proved abortive and unsuccessful,” he wrote. In his response, Tinubu’s Media Aide, Tunde Ramon, at 9.30pm on Monday said a statement would be issued soon. But he had yet to send the statement. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com