The Emir of Ilorin and chairman, Kwara State Council of Chiefs, Alhaji Ibrahim Sulu-Gambari, on Tuesday, said he wholeheartedly supported Governor Abdulrahman Abdulrazaq to contest a second term as the governor of Kwara State. Sulu- Gambari declared publicly that Abdulrazaq had performed wonderfully well and deserved another opportunity to complete his good works. The monarch spoke during his Sallah visit to the governor at the Government House, Ilorin, known as “Bareke,” as part of activities marking Eid- el- Fitr. “The Governor has been hardworking. In fact, he is a field man. I think he spends more time on the field than in his office. I am very glad to be here and I have, from my heart, to testify that I am here in good faith. And I wish that the Governor does another term in office,” he said. Sulu-Gambari who said that Abdulrazaq had the constitutional right to go for a second term in office as the governor, said, “It is an individual’s right enshrined in the Constitution of Nigeria that if you do the first term of four years, you may also contest the second term. “Each citizen of Nigeria is entitled to ask and he should be answered. Your Excellency, go ahead in your aspiration to become second-term Governor in Kwara State. May God be with you, guide you and enable you to succeed.” The Emir prayed for Abdulrazaq for continued God’s guidance and strength to consolidate on his remarkable feats across many sectors of the state. In his response, Abdulrazaq said the Emir’s visit to the Government House was a testament to the excellent relationship between the traditional institutions and the government in the state. He said that he did not take the love which the Emir showed him for granted, adding, “Be rest assured that this administration will always honour and respect the legacies of the Dynasty of Sheikh Alimi.” The governor restated the commitment of his administration to peace, unity, and general well-being of the largest majority of the people of the state. While reeling out his achievements as the governor in the three years of his administration, Abdulrazaq said, “within a space of three years, we have made Kwara workers one of the best and promptly paid workforce in North-Central Nigeria. Our commitment to collective good is evident across all sectors. Health indices have improved; we have upgraded facilities across the state. We have taken roads and other developmental projects to the remotest corners of our state; and we have standardised basic education. “Today, unlike before, Kwara competes strongly with its peers in things that truly matter. “But this is just the beginning. Over the next few years, our state will be the go-to place for national and international events. This is possible, thanks to the different facilities we are building. When people come to see our Durbar, they will go away with beautiful memories of a peaceful state with some of the most modern artistic structures and tourist attractions.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com