Nigerian workers on Sunday demanded a better deal from governments at all levels as they joined their counterparts across the world to celebrate this year’s Workers’ Day. In Oyo State, the Academic Staff Union of Universities flayed the regime of the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), for the corruption in the country,  its disposition to the plight of workers and insecurity. The Chairman of ASUU, University of Ibadan branch, Prof. Ayoola Akinwole, in a statement to commemorate May Day described the political elite in the country as a group of ravaging bandits looting the treasury in the name of politics. The union said it was unfortunate those  in government were concerned only about how to remain in power rather than seeking an end to the issues which caused ASUU strike and others that had turned workers to slaves in their fatherland. Akinwole said, “Workers’ Day in Nigeria had turned into a day of lamentation when dirges are sung to fallen workers who have died in their numbers from poverty; as a result of unpaid wages, kidnapping for ransom, and unsustainable remuneration. “The human development index in Nigeria bears no repetition. Ours has become a story of no and never (to workers’ demands); failure and fear (in genuine legal business transactions); death and disasters (using public utilities and infrastructures).” The Akwa Ibom State chapter of the Nigerian Labour Congress said it will only support governorship candidates that will agree to resolve it demands as contained in a five-point charter. The chairperson of NLC in the state, Sunny James, said the union would invite all governorship candidates to the Labour House after their primaries to deliberate on items that will bring good governance to Akwa Ibom people. He listed the items on the charter to include; living wage and prioritisation of workers welfare, education, healthcare, industrialisation of the state economy and physical security, social protection and good governance. The state governor, Udom Emmanuel, in his remarks, commended workers for their support and resilience to enhance the development of the state. Emmanuel, who was represented by the deputy governor, Mr Moses Ekpo, said without the collaboration of workers, the state government would not have achieved giant strides so far. The Minority Caucus in the House of Representatives lamented that Nigerian workers are observing the Labour Day “in pain, agony and despair, given the suffocating working condition and general economic hardship occasioned by the insensitive, corrupt and overtly inept All Progressives Congress administration.” Gombe State Governor, Muhammadu Yahaya, assured workers that his administration will continue to sustain and deepen the existing friendly working environment and industrial harmony in the state. He said this was aimed at increasing productivity of the workforce in particular and improving good governance in general. Bayelsa State Governor, Mr Douye Diri, acceded to some of the demands of the state NLC and TUC bordering on welfare to motivate the government’s workforce. He gave approval for the implementation of the requests while responding to ‘a shopping list’ contained in the joint address presented by the state chairman of the NLC, John Ndiomu, at the May Day event which was held at the Peace Park, Yenagoa, on Sunday. The Independent National Electoral Commission hailed Nigerian workers for their contribution to the nation’s stability and economic development over the years despite challenges. The chairman of INEC, Prof. Mahmood Yakubu, said these in his message to Nigerian workers on the occasion of the international workers day celebrated every May 1. Speaker of the Nasarawa State House of Assembly, Ibrahim Abdullahi, has commended Governor Abdullahi Sule for keeping to his promise to pay six months outstanding salary arrears to the newly recruited 496 teachers in the state.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com