Addax Petroleum Development Nigeria Limited on Friday said a suspected vandal died in the explosion that rocked its flow station in Izombe, Imo State. An explosion at the oil firm’s flow station in the Oguta Local Government Area of the state was reported to have left two persons dead and caused panic. The incident occurred less than two weeks after an explosion at an illegal refinery site in the Ohaji-Egbema Local Government Area killed over 100 persons. The two victims were reported to be trying to make their way into the firm before the explosion occurred and killed them on the spot. The incident was also said to cause panic in the area. The Police Public Relations Officer, Michael Abattam, confirmed the incident. Also, the oil firm, in a statement by its spokesperson, Mrs Awatt Etta, said an unexploded explosive device and the corpse of the suspected vandal were found at the incident site within its Oil Mining Lease 124. It said it was working with regulatory and security agencies in ongoing investigations into the incident. “At about 01:15am on May 4, 2022, an explosion occurred along a track road leading to one of the wellheads at Izombe flow station in OML 124. An immediate search was conducted, and unexploded improvised explosive devices and a corpse were found at the scene,” the statement partly. The oil firm added “Government security and regulatory agencies were promptly notified of the incident. The police bomb disposal unit has detonated the IEDs and deposited the corpse at the mortuary. Details of the incident are still sketchy, but it is suspected that the bomb that detonated and caused the explosion was being carried by the deceased who has yet to be identified. “We are currently working with relevant authorities investigating the incident. Updates will be provided as more information becomes available.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com