Mixed reactions have trailed the dissolution of caretaker committee leaderships of markets in Anambra State, particularly the Grain Seed Dealers Association market in Obosi, Idemili North Local Government Area. The State Governor, Prof. Chukwuma Soludo, had through a statement signed by the Commissioner for Commerce and Industry, Mr Obinna Ngonadi, dissolved all the caretaker leadership constituted for 30 markets in the state and two recently elected markets leaders under the administration of former governor Willie Obiano. The government in the statement dated April 28, explained that the decision was aimed at revamping the markets, adding that the new caretaker committees would be appointed to replace them respectively from May 12, 2022, till around May 2023 when it had planned to conduct elections. While some stakeholders at the GSDA welcomed the development and prayed for the governor to quickly fill the vacant offices for the effective administration of their markets, others kicked and implored the government to retain the existing caretaker till next year it has slated to conduct an election. An octogenarian, Mrs Josephine Obioma Chukwu, and about 35 other stakeholders at a meeting held in the market had passed a confidence vote on the Prince Charles Ikegwuonu-led committee, arguing that their tenure should be extended to enable them complete what they described as their good works. The Chairman, Board of Trustees of Grain Seed Dealers Association, Ichie, Sir Marcel Okpala, during the meeting added that Ikegwuonu had since his appointment on May 2, 2021, entrenched peace and strengthened their unity, increased their revenue generations, as well as providing them with various infrastructural development. Ikegwuonu said he conveyed the meeting to inform the market that his committee had been dissolved, and thanked the state government for an opportunity given to him and his executive to serve, assuring that he would do more if retained. However, at a separate meeting on Thursday, the immediate past Chairman of the market, Mr Godwin Okonkwo, said they gladly welcome an entirely new caretaker leadership as Ikegwuonu committee remained dissolved for reasons best known to the government. Also, a petition addressed to the Commissioner for Commerce and Industry and signed by three former executive leaders of the market, Mr Chuks Chukwu, Chima Ezenduka, and Thomas Egbe, hailed the dissolution, stressing that it would bring lasting peace to the market. According to the petition, “We still reinstate our prayer that Mr Charles Ikegwuonu be stopped from taking part in the leadership of our association and that the people that will run the association in line with the provisions of the Constitution be appointed. May we register the assurances of our warmest regards to you sir and to the ministry of commerce and industry, Anambra State.” Corroborating the petition, two former executives of the market, Mr Joseph Oguh and Mr Venatus Okolie stressed that only the friend of the embattled Ikegwuonu was in support of his retention, adding that, the majority believed he had no business leading them again since his administration did not strictly adhere to their constitution. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com