A Nigerian civil rights activist based in the United States of America, Smart Madu-Ajaja, has said the involvement of the Central Bank Governor, Godwin Emefiele, in partisan politics is tantamount to a criminal conflict of interest. Madu-Ajaja, who is also the Convener of the ‘Open Nigeria Project’ in a telephone interview with one of our correspondents in Kaduna on Wednesday, noted that Emefiele’s action was a ground for the President to sack him. The activist said, “It is such a great tragedy to know that the Central Bank Governor is a part of the elitist conspiracy to morally bankrupt and liquidate Nigeria with impunity for his selfish gains. “His action is tantamount to a criminal conflict of interest and as such, a ground for the termination of his appointment if he fails to yield to the growing public outrage against his catastrophic judgment and the eventual decision associated. “It hurts to see Nigeria degenerating into such a sovereign and territorial embarrassment with its people lockdown in shackles of both physical, spiritual and mental poverty that impede them from asserting their basic human rights and their rights to their citizenship of Nigeria without fears of punitive consequences.” The PUNCH had reported that Emefiele sought an order of a Federal High Court in Abuja restraining the Federal Government from removing him from office over his presidential ambition. Emefiele, through his counsel, Chief Mike Ozekhome, SAN, on Monday, also sought an order pending the hearing and determination of the substantive matter. He also prayed Justice Ahmed Mohammed to stop the Independent National Electoral Commission from taking any action against him in his bid to contest the presidential primary by virtue of his office. But Justice Mohammed did not grant the motion. Rather, he adjourned the matter until May 12 for a ruling. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com