Nigeria’s opponents in Saturday’s international friendly at the Arlington AT&T Stadium in Dallas, Texas, Mexico have arrived the United States ahead of the encounter, The PUNCH reports. The match will be both sides seventh meeting, with four of their last clashes ending in draws. The El-Tri, who will be featuring at the 2022 World Cup in Qatar later this year, announced a 38-man squad for the encounter six days ago, with stars Raul Jimenez, Hector Herrera, Guillermo Ochoa, Jesus Corona and Edson Alvarez making the shortlist. Our correspondent learnt that the match week will feature the return of the successful MexTour Live festival and concert presented by the Gillette Labs, featuring Grammy-winning Mexican American band, Intocable on Wednesday (today) at the AT &T Discovery District in downtown Dallas. Meanwhile, the Nigerian team are expected to arrive in US later on Wednesday (today), according to the preliminary itinerary announced by the MexTour media officer of the tourney Gabriel Gabor. The Eagles may be without several of their key players for the friendlies in the US. Watford’s Emmanuel Dennis is a big doubt for the Mexico game, as well as the next friendly against Ecuador June 2, after being left out of the Hornets’ 2-1 loss to Chelsea on the final day of the Premier League on Sunday, due to a knee injury. Goalkeeper Maduka Okoye already pulled out of the friendlies due to a lingering shoulder injury. Other goalkeepers in the squad for the games are home-based duo Ojo Olorunleke and Adewale Adeyinka. Furthermore, a press conference involving both teams’ coaches Jose Peseiro and Gerardo ‘Tata’ Martino and selected coaches is expected to hold Friday. The Eagles will train on the turf Friday by 8pm Nigerian time ahead of the game on Saturday.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com