Napoli striker Victor Osimhen is not short of suitors as top European clubs continue to vie for the Nigeria international ahead of the transfer window, PUNCH Sports Extra reports. Despite a season blighted by injuries, the Nigeria international has been in impressive form, scoring 17 goals and registering six assists in 29 appearances in all competitions. His performance has seen several European clubs interested in signing the 23-year-old striker with Premier League clubs Arsenal, Manchester United, Newcastle, and recently Liverpool all linked with the Nigerian. Real Madrid have also been credited with an interest in the forward, although Los Blancos are prioritising a move for Kylian Mbappe, who is out of contract at Paris Saint-Germain next month. According to Gazzetta Dello Sport, Arsenal, who will be without an outright striker after letting Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang leave the club in January, with Alexandre Lacazette and Eddie Nketiah both out of contract next month, are leading the race to sign the Nigerian. The report also added that Osimhen is aware of the interest from the Emirates Stadium but will only join the Gunners if they secure Champions League spot next season. Arsenal are currently fourth in the table, two points clear of fifth-place Tottenham Hotspur, with four games left in the 2021/22 season. United have also been strongly linked with Osimhen, as the Red Devils will lose Edinson Cavani on a free transfer this summer, while the future of Marcus Rashford, Anthony Martial and Cristiano Ronaldo is unclear. Though, not desperate to add to their attack, Liverpool have joined the race for the former Lille striker but will be unwilling to meet Napoli’s £84m asking price for the player. Osimhen still has more than three years left to run on his contract in Naples. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com