A presidential aspirant under the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party, Sam Ohuabunwa, has said he intends to tackle corruption and poverty in the country if elected as the president in the 2023 election. Ohuabunwa said this while addressing journalists in Lagos on Thursday ahead of the PDP’s presidential primary scheduled to hold in Abuja on Saturday. He said he had identified the challenges facing the country as a result of his consultations to the 36 states and the federal capital territory. The presidential hopeful noted that he already mapped out solutions to the challenges facing the country. He said, “We have done at least two trips to the 36 states of our country, meeting with PDP delegates and party leaders. We are set for the presidential primary of our great party. I also want to state that the trips around the country, most of them by road, to places like Zamfara, Kebbi, Potiskum, Damaturu, Maiduguri, and others have exposed us to the real challenges Nigeria is facing and also the opportunities that Nigeria has. As we travel these roads, we saw a large expanse of arable lands that we believe could be converted to pure agricultural opportunities for Nigeria through dedicated commercial farming. “We also saw the condition of the people, because I’ve said severally that the essence of governance is to improve the condition of lives of the people. These tours around the 36 states and Abuja have shown me the level of work we need to do to take our country away from this current situation. I’ve also seen the economic deprivation that lies in the different parts of the country, even though we are sitting on top of great economic potential. “We have sold our vision, and missions and told people the four major areas of focus; one will be poverty, which is talking about the economy, we want to get all Nigerians working, that is our hope. Secondly, we are going to deal with corruption from a fundamental level, and take out those things that cause endemic corruption in our system. Then also enforcing our rules and laws and most importantly, modelling integrity.” Ohuabunwa also promised to deal with insecurity, injustice as well as marginalisation.