THE Nigerian Institute of Architects has said shortcuts, lack of due diligence, and ineffectual regulation are the primary reasons behind the frequency of building collapses in Lagos. The president of the Nigerian Institute of Architects, Enyi Ben-Eboh stated this on Wednesday at the thirteenth edition of Lagos Architects Forum titled, ‘The City of Lagos — What is Lagos?’ The forum was organised by the Lagos State Branch of the Nigerian Institute of Architects to canvass solutions to prevailing issues in the built industry. Speaking during a media chat at the forum, Ben-Eboh said due to Lagos’s population size and high demand for real estate, most practitioners have developed a habit of circumventing due process. He said, “It’s unfortunate that the Lagos area seems to be leading in terms of how frequently buildings collapse. This is not unconnected to the fact that Lagos is a very densely populated area and the demand for land is very high. So, people in a bid to make money cut a lot of corners. “The specific in Ebute-Metta had actually been marked as distressed. It means the authorities had identified that building as not fit for human habitation. It is just unfortunate that after it was marked, they didn’t take concrete efforts to evacuate the occupants so we would not have this issue of people dying in the collapse.” He further stated that while the relevant agencies of government have been active in the area of approval, lack of enforcement has contributed to the menace of building collapse in the state. Ben-Eboh added, “Be that as it may, that does not justify any collapse. In the past, we have had collapses that have been attributable to a number of factors but principally due to the fact that we hardly have the correct professionals manning a lot of these sites. “I want to make bold to say that any site that has the full complement of the necessary professionals supervising the construction of the building is not likely to collapse. That goes back to the point of enforcement. When building plans are approved, it does not just end with the approval, the relevant authority which in this case is the Lagos State Physical Planning Authority, the agency of Lagos State that has to do with monitoring should ensure that there are conditions that are precedent to the approval, those conditions are very well spelled out. “For instance, by the time you’re setting out you have to invite the relevant agencies of government to supervise your setting out. At various stages in the construction, those officials and even the professionals should be there to sign off on the various stages to ensure that they meet the design standards and that somebody takes responsibility for those things. “This is a call to the various state governments, particularly the Lagos State Government to increase the area of inspection of projects as they’re going on. It is not when a building has been completed that you go there and mark it as not approved.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com