The Federal Capital Territory Police Command has arrested six suspected drug peddlers and handed them over to the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency. According to the FCT Police Public Relations Officer, DSP Josephine Adeh, the police recovered large quantities of prohibited substances, including hard drugs. Adeh said, “In furtherance of our crusade against crime and criminality in the FCT, we have recorded the arrest of six male suspected drug peddlers and the recovery of suspected hard drugs and large quantities of prohibited substances. “The suspects stated that they had been in the business for quite a while. Investigation has been intensified to unravel other ground-breaking revelations that could lead to more arrests, while the suspects have been handed over to the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency.” She identified the suspects as Suleiman Bello, 27; Jonathan Joseph, 35; Suleiman Shamsudeen, 22; Emeka Offor, 29; Tanko Abdullahi, 20; and Luka Ishiaku, 25. The PPRO said they were arrested in a chain of operations carried out by the command’s anti-narcotic unit at different black spots within the FCT. “Upon arrest, the suspects were found in possession of large quantities of dry leaves suspected to be cannabis sativa of different variants like loud, arizona, crack cocaine, and bottles of codeine syrup,” she added. The FCT Commissioner of Police, Babaji Sunday, while reacting to the incident, called on religious and societal leaders to use their platforms to preach against drug and substance abuse. In a related development, the Coordinator of the Katsina State Action Committee Against Drug Abuse and Social Miscreants, Ibrahim Katsina, on Wednesday, said the committee arrested 67 miscreants and intercepted drugs worth N2m. Katsina, who is also Governor Aminu Masari’s Special Adviser on Security Matters, made the disclosure during the presentation of 600 sets of boots, 600 sets of uniforms, belts, berets and caps, among other kits, to members of the committee. The special adviser disclosed that the intercepted drugs were meant to be supplied to terrorists in the forest. He explained that the drugs included 250 milligrams of tramadol tablets and 6,000 tablets of exol-5 tablets.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com