A presidential aspirant of the Peoples Democratic Party and Governor of Sokoto State, Aminu Tambuwal, on Saturday, said if elected President in the 2023 general election, his administration would partner with the Ndigbo to industrialise Nigeria. Tambuwal said the partnership would focus more on skill acquisition programmes to engage Nigerians, especially, the youths, irrespective of tribe, ethnic and religious placement to douse the agitations and other criminal activities across the country. The Sokoto governor stated this when he addressed the Anambra PDP delegates at the national convention in Awka, Anambra State. He noted that the major cause of the agitations such as Boko Haram, banditry, gunmen, and other security threats befalling the country was a result of idleness on the side of the youths and the All Progressives Congress-led Federal Government’s failure to engage them on meaningful ventures. He said, “If I am elected as President, I will exhibit what I am currently doing in Sokoto State as governor. In my state today, the government under my watch pays school fees for indigenes and non-indigenes in all the public schools from primary to secondary school in the state and that is the policy I will maintain in the education sector if I am elected.” Tambuwal said that among those vying for the highest office in the land, he was about the most qualified having been a lawyer and speaker of the House of Representatives who handled matters at federal level and governor of a state, adding that such qualifications were not common among other aspirants. “I also have the competence, capacity, character, and the right temperament to handle national issues. The issues in Nigeria require somebody who is calm and has a large network of friends across the nation. “I am a pan-Nigerian. I know the challenges of Anambra State, so I can represent you well-heeled,” he added. He challenged Nigerians to aspire to have a modern President, the person of himself, who can do the job and not President of 1984, stressing that the difference between the PDP government and the APC was the ability to deliver the dividends of democracy to the people, in which the PDP governors had been doing. “As delegates, we must be very conscious of the candidate we will choose because our action will have a direct consequence on the lives of those alive and those yet unborn. It’s a very sacred responsibility which we must emphasise with every sense of patriotism, commitment and sincerity. “I thank leaders like Governor Okowa for resolving the issue of rotation in our party the way it was resolved. Agreed the constitution of our party recognises rotation, but force majeure has made it compelling for the PDP to adopt the doctrine of necessity. “In this case, the PDP said all Presidential aspirants irrespective of where they are from can go to the field and canvass for votes and whoever wins will now be the flag bearer of our party. There is a lot of wisdom in what has been done and that’s why you can see that our party has been stable. “The main objective for PDP is to win the election, how can we win the election and who is that candidate that can deliver victory to our party,” he said. On the murder of Deborah Yakubu, Tambuwal assured that the kind of death suffered by the Shehu Shagari College of Education student would not happen again because that did not represent the true life of the Sokoto people. He said Sokoto State believed in the unity and oneness of Nigeria and that his administration had demonstrated the openness and oneness of the country. “We pray it doesn’t happen again,” he said while blaming the incident on the failure of the security system. Over 1000 PDP supporters in the state welcomed him to Anambra State. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com