Police have confirmed that many people were injured following the crisis that erupted in the Warji Local Government Area of Bauchi State over alleged blasphemy. The PUNCH had earlier reported that a pastor was also allegedly injured when irate youths went on the rampage on Friday. The Police Public Relations Officer, Bauchi State Command, Ahmed Wakil, confirmed the incident in a statement titled, ‘CP orders an investigation of the crisis that erupted in Warji’, on Saturday. The PUNCH learnt that trouble started in the area when a message circulated on social media that a Christian girl in the town allegedly committed blasphemy. He said the Bauchi State Commissioner of Police, Umar Sanda, has ordered a thorough investigation into the crisis that erupted in Warji LGA Bauchi State. Wakil said the incident was caused by an alleged blasphemous message posted by a medical staff of Warji LGA, Rhoda Jatau. He said that the situation is under control as Police Tactical Teams, Mobile Police Force and Rapid Response Squad have been deployed to the area. “On 20th May, 2022 at about 5.45 pm, some irate youths set six houses and seven shops ablaze, while some scores of persons were injured as a result of a blasphemous message posted on a social media by one Rhoda Jatau (female) 40 years old staff of the Medical Department Warji Local Government. “The Police have since deployed all Tactical Teams, Mobile Police Force and Rapid Response Squad whose joint efforts brought the situation under control. The area is calm for now, while visibility patrols are ongoing to keep the peace. “The Commissioner of Police appeal to the general public to be calm and go about their lawful business without any fear of intimidation as normalcy has been restored in the affected area,” he stated. He assured the general public that the police are on top of the situation and will continue to update them as to the level of investigation from time to time. The police spokesman warned parents and guardians on the need to “maintain strict vigilance over the activities of their wards, particularly youths”. He added that “The Commissioner of Police also urged religious leaders, community leaders and elders generally to always speak to youths to desist from anything that could temper with the security of their areas.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com