The Senator representing Kaduna Central, Uba Sani has emerged as the governorship candidate of the All Progressives Congress for the 2023 governorship election in the state. Sani, who’s the preferred candidate of the State Governor, Nasir El-Rufai, defeated a former House of Representatives member and an in-law to the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), Alhaji Sani Sha’aban; and a former Assistant Controller of Custom, Bashir Abubakar, to clinch the ticket. The lawmaker polled 1,149 votes to defeat the duo of Abubakar and Sha’aban with 37 and 10 votes respectively with 39 invalid votes. The Returning Officer for the APC primary election, Anachuna Henry, who declared Sani as the winner, said there were 1,275 delegates but noted that 1,245 were accredited and 1,196 cast their votes. The APC primary which was held at the Multi-purpose Umaru Musa Yar’Adua Hall, Murtala Square in the metropolis on Thursday, ended at about 2:30 am on Friday. The governorship candidate in his acceptance speech expressed appreciation to the party’s delegates for the confidence reposed in him, promising to reach out to other aspirants for their support to ensure the victory of the party at the general elections. Sani also promised to build on the legacies of El-Rufai in tackling the numerous challenges before the state and forge unity among the people of Kaduna. While appreciating El-Rufai’s support, the governorship candidate assured him of his determination to take the state to higher heights. He said, “for long we waited for this moment. By the special grace of God, we are witnesses to this glorious moment. I am deeply humbled and delighted to stand before this distinguished gathering of our party delegates, top officials, and supporters to deliver this acceptance speech. “This is your victory. This is your moment. This is the beginning of the journey of consolidation and continuity. We shall build on the wonderful legacies of our dear leader, the irrepressible Governor Nasir El-Rufai. Together we shall tackle our challenges and forge unity among our people. “Today’s governorship primary is a showpiece of superb organization, display of decency, patience, and discipline by delegates. We have shown that we believe in democracy and are ready to follow the rule of law and due process. Democracy is about participation. Once people are allowed to express their free will, the process and outcome are a beauty to behold. “I, therefore, thank my co-contestants, Alhaji Mohammed Sani Sha’aban and Alhaji Bashir Abubakar for their belief in the democratic process. I will reach out to these great politicians and strategists and extend my hand of fellowship to them. I would deeply appreciate it if they can work together with me to take Kaduna State to higher heights.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com