The Ekiti State Governor and Chairman of the Nigerian Governors Forum, Dr. Kayode Fayemi, has said he will end the country’s struggle with banditry and insurgency with the same experience he deployed in resolving the wars in Sierra Leone, Liberia, Rwanda, and Sri Lanka. According to a statement signed on Friday by the Head of Fayemi Campaign Organisation, Femi Ige, the governor said this during his visit to Kaduna State as part of consultations ahead of the forthcoming primary of the All Progressives Congress. The statement was titled ‘Presidency: I’ll end insurgency, banditry like I did in Rwanda, Sri Lanka – Fayemi’ Addressing the Kaduna delegates, Fayemi said: “I’m one of the few Nigerians with real-time experience in resolving wars. I consulted for Nigeria under former President Olusegun Obasanjo. I was involved in the resolution of the wars in Sierra Leone, Liberia, and Rwanda and in bringing the Tamil Tigers of Sri Lanka to the negotiation table. “Besides real-time experience in war resolution, I have a Doctorate Degree in War Studies. If I can bring peace to other lands, why not my own country. Nigeria is facing a war situation that we can’t afford to put a neophyte in power, the repercussions are too ghastly to contemplate. “I will spare no effort to ensure that we win the fight that must be fought with tenacity against insecurity, banditry, unemployment, poverty, inequality, threats of national disintegration, and lawlessness. “To this end, working with other key leaders of the party, a detailed blueprint that has been developed with corresponding timelines of implementation will be employed to guide the speedy and accelerated retooling of key institutions of the state, including the armed forces, the police service, and the civil service.” Fayemi also noted the hostile domestic pressures and external shocks on the country’s economy, saying more work is to be done in expanding the national social security and skills acquisition policies to enhance human development. Fayemi said, “Adverse domestic pressures and external shocks on the economy have affected our quest massively to dent unemployment and overcome some of its deleterious effects on the populace, especially our teeming population of young people. “I am especially committed to the facilitation of wealth and employment creation by, and for our people, the expansion of our national social security and skills acquisition policies to enhance human development, and the wholesale revamp of our national educational system to ensure it is fit for purpose, and the intensive fostering of measures aimed at expanding inclusivity for those who are objectively marginalised in the polity. “In this regard, we owe it to ourselves and our people to ensure that our women, the youth, and people living with disability who represent some of our greatest national assets are judiciously developed and deployed for the good of our country.” The Ekiti Governor visited the states in the company of former APC Deputy National Chairman (North), Senator Shuaib Lawal, who told delegates to throw their support behind an aspirant with the requisite level of education, capacity, and experience to resolve the nation’s security challenges. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com