Operatives of the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps in Bauchi State have arrested a 52-year-old man for allegedly kidnapping and killing a five-year-old girl after collecting ransom from her parents. The prime suspect, Kabiru Abdullahi, a resident of Narabi, in the Toro Local Government Area of Bauchi State, allegedly connived with one Alhaji Yawale (45) to kidnap the girl. While parading the suspects before journalists at the NSCDC headquarters in Bauchi on Monday, the state Commandant, Nurudeen Abdullahi, said the men kidnapped the child in front of their house and took her to a bridge where they strangled and put her in a sack. He said the suspects took the minor’s body and buried it in Kabiru’s kitchen and thereafter contacted her father, a businessman. They reportedly demanded N1m as ransom. After negotiations, they were paid N150,000. The NSCDC commandant said, “On April 23, 2022, around 7.30pm, information was received on the alleged kidnap of a five-year-old girl, Amina Abdullahi, at Sabon Gari Narabi, Toro LGA, Bauchi State. “NSCDC officers attached to the Toro division swung into action and arrested the following suspects: Kabiru Abdullahi, 52, (direct neighbour) and Alhaji Yawale, 45. “Preliminary investigation revealed that the prime suspect, Kabiru, kidnapped Amina in front of her house, took her to a nearby bridge, strangled her and put her in a sack. “He contacted the father of the victim, Yusuf Abdullahi, and demanded a ransom. After a series of negotiations, it was agreed that the sum of N150,000 be paid for her release. “His accomplice, Alhaji Yawale, collected the sum of N150,000 under a tamarind tree in the bush at Narabi village. “Further investigation revealed that Amina was killed on April 27, 2022, and buried inside the kitchen of the prime suspect. “A team of investigators dug the sack from the ground and took the body to the General Hospital, Toro, where she was certified dead by a medical doctor.” According to him, exhibits recovered from the suspects are the sum of N42,000, fake $200 notes, charms, two MTN SIM cards, different car keys and phone numbers. He said the suspects would be handed over to the police for further investigation and prosecution. The commandant said on April 30, 2022, around 4pm, a suspected case of robbery along Diriko village was also reported to the agency. He said NSCDC personnel attached to the Toro division immediately mobilised to the scene and arrested two suspects: Isiya Lawal (30) and Musa Ado (20). “Preliminary investigation revealed that the victim, Hamisu Halidu (18) of Tilden Fulani took the suspects on his Bajaj Boxer motorcycle to Dinya village. On their way, the suspects attacked him with a stick and a knife with the intention of killing him and carting away his motorcycle. “As they were dragging, a good Samaritan came to assist the victim. In the process, the NSCDC arrived and arrested the suspects,” he added. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com