The Chief Executive Officer, FBS Reinsurance Limited, Mr. Fola Daniel, has said the firm will support insurance companies in West Africa to grow their underwriting capacities and innovative product development. Speaking with our correspondent in Lagos, he said to actualise part of its corporate goals, FBS Re recently organised a training programme in Ghana on new business risks in areas that included bankers’ blanket bonds underwriting, cyber insurance, and electronic/computer fraud cover. He said the firm had plans for wider training coverage of the sub-region. Daniel said, “We are boosting capacity in new areas such as cyber security and bankers’ blanket bonds for the financial services sector. This will enable insurance market operators to key into these emerging business opportunities. “This was intended to further establish FBS Re as a company which is determined to deepen insurance penetration in the sub region.” Explaining bankers’ blanket bond, he said it was a form of ‘all-risk insurance policy’ aimed at providing financial protection to banks and other finance houses against operational losses which they might incur in their lending activities. “The cyber insurance, electronic/computer fraud will give cover against technology-induced losses to organisations caused by these new risks,” he said. He said the training programme on the new products took place in Accra during WAICA educational conference and had participants from insurance companies, brokerage industry and banking in Ghana. Notable facilitators from Lloyds of London and specialist financial services underwriters teamed up with FBS RE’s in-house faculties to successfully deliver the programme, he said. Danile said FBS Re would continue to share knowledge with its cedents and the insurance industry with a view to enabling the industry to innovate and underwrite their businesses profitably. The Nigerian market, he added, would in addition enjoy a planned life insurance training, working in conjunction with its technical partner, a notable global reinsurer, designed to innovate life underwriting to meet the complexities in the digital environment and enhance public awareness.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com