A presidential aspirant, Kingsley Moghalu, on Monday, told Nigerians the type of leaders they should elect during next year’s general election. The former Central Bank of Nigeria’s Deputy governor noted that for Nigerians to change the country’s bad trajectories, they must vote for the right leaders with the right mindset. Moghalu, in a tweet on his Twitter handle on Monday, said the type of leaders Nigerians should opt for must be those who wake up with the mindset of “making life better” for the people. According to him, for as long as we take the suffering of Nigerians for granted, for so long will it get worse. He tweeted, “For as long as we take the suffering of Nigerians for granted, for so long will it get worse. We need leadership that wakes up every morning with how to make life better for our teeming masses uppermost on our minds. It’s called “development-obsessed” leadership.” In another tweet, the presidential aspirant said with the extension of the strike by the Academic Staff Union of Universities by another 12 weeks, there was need for Nigerians to get it right in 2023. He wrote, “If ASUU keeps striking, their demands are not met or seriously negotiated, and our young people remain uneducated, should we not be thinking of a more fundamental, political solution? Back and elect the #EducationPresident in 2023: Professor @MoghaluKingsley to fix it.” The PUNCH reports that ASUU rolled over its ongoing strike for another 12 weeks. A statement signed by ASUU president, Prof. Emmanuel Osodeke, said this was to give the government enough time to satisfactorily resolve all the outstanding issues. It also stated that the roll-over strike was effective from 12.01 am, May 9, 2021. ASUU said it took this decision after its National Executive Council meeting which started on Sunday night at the Comrade Festus Iyayi National Secretariat, University of Abuja. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com