A political pressure group in the South-South region, Niger Delta Coalition for Sustainable Development, has called on a former Nigerian envoy, Dr. Young Piero, to step out and vie for the Delta South Senatorial seat in the National Assembly in the next political dispensation. Representatives of the group, Laju Asuluwa and Favour Tamapreye, said in a statement made available to journalists in Warri on Monday, “The call became necessary considering the fact that for too long, the area has been marginalised and misrepresented in the National Assembly. “We understand that laws can only be made by people who know what representation is all about.” The group also enjoined All Progressives Congress’ leaders in Delta State, notably Senator Ovie Omo-Agege and Chief Otega Emerhor, as well as other party chieftains to support the young man, noting that he will also contribute to their victory in 2023. The statement read in part, “We want individuals that have been able to sustain their own businesses and brands to manage the governance in Niger Delta. “And when we talk about Delta-South Senatorial District, where we have the grassroots, and we have overtime met young people across board, this particular young man that we met some time ago, has what it takes to lead the people. “He is not that young guy or ordinary guy that you are thinking about. He has the intellectual capability, capacity, reach and connection both locally and internationally to occupy this seat and put a smile on the faces of the people he represents. This is the kind of people we need. “He has never been involved in community misappropriation of public funds, rather he has been investing money in community development and human capacity building across the board. “At a time like this, we need a person that will be able to lobby for the good people of Niger Delta South Senatorial District with local and international connections”. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com