The Bauchi State Government has relaxed the 24 hours curfew earlier slammed on Yelwa Kagadama, Tsakani, and Lushi in Bauchi Local Government Area, following the crisis that erupted in the area last Friday. The curfew was relaxed by 12 hours, now 6 pm – 6 am. The PUNCH had reported that a crisis that erupted in Yelwa Tsakani on Friday night had claimed the lives of three people while many houses, cars, motorcycles, and properties worth millions of naira were burnt down in the violence. This compelled the Bauchi State Governor, Bala Mohammed, to immediately impose a 24-hour curfew to contain the spread and reprisals of the incident. After three days, the government, in a media statement signed by the Chief of Staff, Government House, Bauchi, Dr. Aminu Gamawa, and made available to journalists on Tuesday, said that it was necessary for the curfew to be relaxed. He said this was in view of the fact that the government was on top of the situation, noting that the curfew had been relaxed by 12 hours. Gamawa explained that the move was to give the residents of the area, an opportunity to go about their normal business activities. “Following the civil unrest of Friday, May 27, 2022, that was ignited by miscreants in Kagadama, Tsakani, and Lushi in Bauchi Local Government Area, the Bauchi State Government swiftly responded by deploying security personnel to the scene, who restored law and order and made some arrests. Accordingly, a full-scale investigation into the immediate and remote causes of the incident has commenced while a 24-hour curfew was imposed. “Given the fact that government is on top of the situation, normalcy has been restored to the affected areas, thus it is deemed necessary that the imposed curfew be reviewed. “Consequently, His Excellency, Sen. Bala Mohammed has approved the review of the 24-hour curfew imposed on Yelwa and environs to a 12-hour curfew – 6:00 pm to 6:00 am. “The review is to allow law-abiding citizens to go about their normal businesses. The government will continue to monitor the situation in order to ensure that peaceful coexistence reigns not only in the affected areas but also in all parts of Bauchi State. “The efforts of security agencies, traditional institutions, and religious bodies toward canvassing for peace and peaceful coexistence is hereby appreciated,” the Chief of Staff stated. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com