Africa has witnessed a growth of more than 50% in the number of retail online traders since 2020. There are currently more than 300 000 retail forex traders in Nigeria alone. Unfortunately, with every growing market, there will always be unscrupulous individuals preying on consumers. Nigeria’s Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, warns against increasing trading scams in the country. The organization has clamped down on 10 Ponzi scheme operators who have scammed Nigerians of more than N12 billion from October 2020 to August 2021. So how can you tell a good broker from a scam broker? 1 License and regulation 2 Physical offices 3 Reputable business reputation 4 Separate accounts for clients 5 Testimonials from clients Join CMTrading – Nigeria’s award-winning broker Tope Ijibadejo, CMTrading Nigeria Region Manager, shares how you can avoid scams and what to look for in a reputable broker. Q: What makes a good broker? Ijibadejo said: “First of all, a good broker should be a licensed and regulated entity. You don’t want to trade with a bucket shop. You want to trade with a reputable company that is being overseen by a regulatory agency or that has the license to conduct financial transactions within the market it’s operating in. Licensing and regulation are critical, and they protect you the consumer. “Another good sign is the technologies they have, such as social trading. With social trading every type of client is welcome. In this sense, newbies, people who are new to the business, can start profiting. Also, they have a high chance of profiting from the market using social trading technology, such as CMTrading’s Copykat, because it gives you a level playing field. You can copy and have an insight into what other, more experienced trading is doing in the market. “One extremely important factor is whether or not they have segregated accounts. This means your accounts are separated from the company’s funds. Good brokers, such as CMTrading, open accounts for tier-one banks and won’t ever touch client funds. CMTrading Exclusive Trading Seminar in Port Harcourt, Nigeria Join our weekly seminars Q: Why is being licensed and regulated important? Ijibadejo said: “Licensing and regulation are extremely important because when it comes to money, there should always be a watchdog. You want someone to act like a referee watching both sides of a transaction. Regulation and licensing are important for transparency. It’s important that whichever broker you are dealing with has a referee, is regulated, and has a regulatory body that looks into its books. You want a broker that operates with the best practices. You want a broker that if anything goes wrong you know you can refer them to the regulatory body. You need to be safe. “Most importantly, brokers that are licensed try to play by the rules and deal honestly, because they have a name to protect. They have a license they can lose and are not willing to pay fines. For this reason, there’s an extra layer of security for clients. Overall, it’s just safer for you as a trader to deal with a broker that is licensed, to avoid getting scammed.” Q: How can you tell a good broker from a scam? Ijibadejo said: “There are few red flags that you can easily spot. No.1 is when a broker isn’t licensed or regulated. This is a telltale sign that it is a scam broker. There’s nobody to turn to if they take your money. “Another is that they are always giving promotions that are too good to be true. In Nigeria, you hear of offers such as a 2000% bonus. If it’s too good to be true it’s probably a trap. These scams are trying to attract greedy people who will be fooled. They use unbelievable offers to disguise the fact that they are not licensed or regulated. They want you to focus on the offer and drop your money into their pockets. “Sometimes scammers promise you a return on your investment. I’ve seen brokers who will promise to trade for you if you give them money. A broker cannot be the trader. A broker can only assist you with resources and technology. When they are the ones that are trading, asking to be involved in trading your account, that’s a red flag. They will never work in your best interest. They will look to convert your deposits to their money. So I think he’s awesome three ways to spot them. Q: Any other scams people should be on the lookout for? Ijibadejo said: “Another big one in Nigeria is that they sometimes give zero spreads. How do they make their money if not through a spread? When you see these offers that are too good to be true you know the broker is not making money from his spread rather, they are looking out to make money from your deposits. “Runaway from brokers who are saying they are zero-spread brokers; they don’t make any money from your transactions and instead take money from your deposits.” Become a better trader – join our seminars Q: Why join CMTrading? Ijibadejo said: “CMTrading is a 10-year-old business that has stood the test of time. The majority of businesses close down in the first three years. If after five years a business is still standing then that’s a business that you can rely on. CMTrading happens to be one such business. It is currently servicing over 1 million clients around the world. It is known to be Africa’s largest and best-performing broker with offices in South Africa, Nigeria, and many parts of the world. “CMTrading is known for the high level of trading education we deliver. We conduct in-personal training, webinars, and regular seminars. It’s our goal to increase the level of knowledge of all our clients so they can perform well in the markets. Their success is our success, so we want all our clients to succeed. We are also licensed and regulated. What’s more, we’re an award-winning broker in Nigeria and South Africa!” Ready to start trading? Open an account today Join CMTrading, the largest and best-performing broker in Africa, and discover more opportunities with an award-winning broker. Register here to get started Follow CMTrading on Facebook, Instagram, LinkedIn, Twitter, and YouTube.