The Chartered Institute of Bankers of Nigeria, Redeemer’s College of Technology and Management, and other experts have said that technical and vocational skills are vital for economic and national development. As a result, the CIBN advocated creation of financial institutions, tool-leasing agencies, among others, strictly for vocationally-skilled people to ensure access to startup capital and equipment after acquisition of skills. The stakeholders spoke at the second international conference of RECTEM held both physically and virtually in Ogun State. The Chairman, Governing Council, RECTEM, Dr. Johnson Funsho Odesola, said that Nigeria’s quest for greatness might continue to be elusive if vocational and technical education was not given uttermost attention. He described technical and vocational education as a catalyst for nation’s greatness and means through which small and medium enterprises could spring up to address the issue of youth unemployment. The conference was themed, “Vocational and technical education: catalyst to national development”. He said, “Nigeria’s march to greatness might continue to elude the nation with potential to be great if development of vocational skill and technical education is not given the required attention by authorities at the federal and state levels.” Corroborating this view, the President, CIBN, Dr. Bayo Olugbemi, said, “It is the super and foundation upon which the technical development of any nation can be built upon. Vocational and technical education is not just a catalyst but it is the indispensable lifeline for a sustainable national development and oxygen needed by our nation whose economy is already gasping for breath.” Keynote Speaker, Former Director, Institute of Vocational Training and Research in Agriculture, Tai Solarin University of Education, Ogun State, Prof. James Banjo, said Nigerians were suffering today because institutions providing vocational and technical education were not paying attention to methods, relativity, depth and significance of research carried out which, under normal circumstances,should be in line with industrial need. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com