The Actors’ Guild of Nigeria has demanded an autopsy on a Nollywood actress, Chinedu Bernard, who was confirmed dead in a hospital after she slumped while cleaning a church on Friday. In an Instagram post on Tuesday, the president of the guild, Emeka Rollas, has demanded an autopsy on the late actress, to ascertain the real cause of her death. According to him, many questions are yet to be answered concerning the actress’ death. He wrote, “Many questions yet to be answered concerning the death of Actress Chinedu Bernard. “1. How can someone who slumped inside a church sustain bruises on the face? 2. Who are Chinedu’s parishioner friends? 3. Who are Chinedu’s friends in Enugu where she is practising her craft? “So its either someone killed her or she took a suicidal substance and decided to die in the church. “Autopsy must be conducted to ascertain the main cause of her death. Let me use this medium to address Actors. No man is an Island. “It’s gross irresponsibility for any actor to be in an Industry such as ours without being up to date with the Actors Guild of Nigeria. Stop hiding under all those ridiculous woods as an actor to claim you are a certified actor. “Because once there is an issue whether in good or bad light, the pressure comes on AGN as if AGN is anybody’s next of kin. Please, social media hailing, accolades is not love. Even animals move in clusters.” Bernard was confirmed dead at the East Side Hospital in Enugu State after she slumped while cleaning the Chapel of St. Leo the Great Catholic Church in the Federal Housing area of the state. The actress popularly known as Choco featured in movies including ‘The Mad’, ‘Money Fever’, ‘The Big Mama’s Stick’, ‘The Last Manhood’ and ‘Mad Love’. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com