A coalition of groups rooting for a former Governor of Abia State, Peter Obi, from within and outside Nigeria, said they have concluded arrangements to organise a one-million-man march in solidarity and support of the presidential bid. The march, which would hold across the 36 states and the Federal Capital Territory, would be anchored by the Coalition for Peter Obi, which is made up of more than a dozen of Obi support groups. Chairman of the coalition, Mr Marcel Ngogbehei, in a statement issued on Friday, said the support groups included, Peter Obi Support Network, Like Minds for Peter Obi, Nigeria Needs Peter Obi, TakeBackNaija, Women for Peter Obi, Associates of Peter Obi, Peter Obi FC, Peter Obi movement for president, Associates of Peter Obi, Peter Obi Candidacy Movement, Peter Obi Ambassadors, TeamOHO, among others. Ngogbehei, in the statement titled ‘Coalition Organises One Million March Across 36 States, FCT for Peter Obi,’ added that the groups have been mobilised to ensure the success of the movement on Saturday. The convener noted that the goal of the exercise was to demand that Peoples Democratic Party delegates ensure that Obi is voted presidential candidate of the party. The statement partly read, “We as support groups for Peter Obi are organising a one-million-man march on Saturday, May 21, 2022, across the 36 states of the federation and FCT, in a bid to show maximum solidarity, love, and support for our principal’s divine mandate for the 2023 presidency. “The one-million-man march is to ensure that Nigerians of like minds come out en masse in all the states of the federation and the FCT in solidarity with the presidential aspirant. The one million-man march is anchored by Coalition for Peter Obi, which is made up of more than a dozen different support groups for Mr Peter Obi. All supporters of Peter Obi will participate fully in the march all over Nigeria. The one-million-man match is a show of solidarity and love for the credible candidature of Mr Peter Obi. “Various routes have been chosen for the march in all the 36 states and FCT. The march will start by 10am prompt and we have obtained police permits to ensure security. The take-off points for all states have been shared on various social media platforms, and all great supporters of Peter Obi should reach out to their respective coordinators and WhatsApp group admins to ensure familiarity and easy locations to the routes. “This is a peaceful solidarity march, and all are encouraged to portray a patriotic spirit, be of good conduct and avoid actions that will give us bad names, neither should we allow hoodlums to hijack our peaceful march. Let’s be very conscious and alert in the exercise.” The statement was signed by the Chairman, CPO, Marcel Ngogbehei; Secretary, CPO, Dr O. A Ezekwesili; Coordinator, North-West, Zubairu Mohammad; Coordinator, North-East, Molta Abubakar; Coordinator, North-Central, Mrs. Ebere Obiesie; Coordinator, South-East, Maduabuchi Grant; Coordinator, South-West, Omoyele Vincent; and Coordinator, South-South, Stella Ozemoya. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com