First Bank of Nigeria Limited says it has launched a promo in collaboration with Interswitch to reward users of the FirstMobile app, its mobile banking application. It said in a statement th+at the promo tagged ‘FirstMobile Cash-out Promo’ which started on March 21, 2022 would run for three months. Rewards including, N1m, N40,000, N10,000 cash prizes, N40,000 airtime, LED televisions, refrigerators, washing machines, air conditioning systems would be won during the three months campaign, it stated. The bank said a minimum of two bills payment worth N1,000 and five airtimes of at least a total of N2,000 in a week qualified a customer for any of the prizes. According to the lender, the promo is open to new customers and existing users of the FirstMobile app. The statement said, “FirstMobile customers who do a minimum of six transactions weekly on the FirstMobile app, will be eligible for the respective rewards: N10,000 cash for 200 winners; Gift items (TVs, refrigerators and AC) for 10 winners; N10,000 airtime for 340 winners. “On the other hand, 500 customers that carry out a minimum of 10 transactions monthly will win N30,000 cash. “The grand prize of N1m will be won by two lucky customers who carry out a minimum of 20 transactions or a minimum of two bills payment of N1,000 plus five airtime transactions of at least a total of N5000 in a week.” Speaking on the campaign, FirstBank’s Group Executive, e-Business & Retail Products, Chuma Ezirim, said, “As the leading financial inclusion services provider in Nigeria, we are delighted to partner with Interswitch, an Africa-oriented technology-driven company, to reward our customers for their continuous patronage. “Together with Interswitch, we remain committed to ensuring the continued safety of customers’ funds across multiple electronic payment channels irrespective of where our customers may be across the world. “FirstMobile remains another obvious step towards leveraging evolving technologies to bring fast and convenient digital banking solutions to our customers.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com