A Peoples Democratic Party presidential aspirant and former Vice President of Nigeria, Atiku Abubakar, on Sunday, said he has a five-point development agenda for the country if he becomes the next President come 2023. Atiku who met with Abia State Special Delegates to the PDP National convention at the Government House Banquet Hall highlighted his five-point development agenda to include; instituting symbols of unity, and dealing with insecurity, the economy, education, and restructure of the country. He said that the South-East is his real point adding, “Therefore, nobody can label me anti-East or anti-race”. According to him, by 2023, PDP would have been in opposition for 8 years, stating, “We must win the next election.Would we like to go back? Do we want to remain in opposition? These are the questions before us” “Your aspiration as Igbo people will materialise and be realised. So, give me victory so that your aspiration will be realised. “Together, we can achieve these goals if we unite as PDP and fight for power.” He added, “I came with these objectives and if you should be able to give me this opportunity, I believe we will work together to achieve this”. Earlier in a courtesy call on him, Gov. Okezie Ikpeazu saluted Atiku for his doggedness in his quest to unify and recover Nigeria. Nigeria, he said, “has drifted further down the valley from where we are. Nigerians are faced with serious challenges and are now begging for the opportunity to live.” Speaking, the PDP state chairman, Asiforo Okere, expressed his excitement to receive Atiku, adding, “We are not unaware of your contributions to the nation”. Atiku was led by his campaign director general, Raymond Dokpesi who described Atiku, as “a detribalised Nigerian, astute deliverer of democracy and a unifier”. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com