A group, All Progressives Congress Youth Forum has alleged that the ruling Peoples Democratic Party in Bauchi State sponsored thugs to destroy billboards of APC aspirants. The National Chairman of the forum, Ukkasha Rahama, said this while speaking to journalists in Bauchi State on Wednesday. He noted that the destruction of billboards and campaign posters was done at strategic areas in the state capital. Rahama said, “The scenes of destruction of billboards and campaign posters of Nura Manu Soro led by unknown persons stand condemnable and unfortunate. “Soro has constitutional right to contest whatever political seat he may deem fit according to the constitution of the federal republic of Nigeria.” He decried the attacks on APC members and called on the ruling PDP in the state “to call the thugs and their sponsors to order,” reiterating that the attacks on their members must be addressed ahead of the 2023 general elections. “We are using this medium to call on the Commissioner of Police and the Director of the State Security Services in the State and security agencies to ensure that these Political thugs and their sponsors behind this ugly and unfortunate situation are arrested and prosecuted according to the laws of the land to serve as the deterrence to others who may have similar motives. “The wake up clap down on the opposition, the All Progressives Congress, in the State is condemnable by all and sundry. It should not continue to happen as the recurrence of such will pitch the parties and the politicians against each other and denied the State of any meaning development. “The clampdown on the APC in the state should not continue to happen as the re occurrence will pitch the parties and politicians against each other and deny the state any meaningful opposition,” he said. “The governor as a beneficiary of the opposition must protect Bauchi long ancestral heritage where power and money does not win elections for aspirants.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com