Dear Aunty Temilolu, I read your post on virginity and I want to thank you. Though it looks like we lack pleasures, not current, not trending or stupid etc, I am certain, just as you are that the future shall be glorious! Thank you for your invaluable preaching on sexual purity! Pat Dear Aunty Temilolu, I want you to know I agree with your priceless teachings and I am a witness to the rewards of leading a chaste life! I waited till 34 to get married and my fiancé and I never compromised. I clearly understood where I was coming from. I wanted to change some patterns and I never wanted to walk anyone’s path. I have tasted suffering, rejection, loneliness in life because of my refusal to engage in sex before marriage! I have been offered to be laid on several occasions to get a job even with a First Class and a master’s degree but I would always say to myself, “it’s too late to compromise” The long and short of it is that I never regretted my decision and God rewarded me! Please keep up the good work. May God continue to increase you in Jesus’ mighty name! Anita Ogbonna Dear Aunty Temilolu, I am a 25-year-old graduate. I graduated from the university two years ago. I met a guy after my service year around April last year. As I write this, I still feel so ashamed of myself. I can’t stop regretting everything that happened between us. After five months of our relationship, he asked for sex. I didn’t want to accept at first. Then he began disturbing me and giving me the cold shoulder! I was so blind I never knew that was a red flag. After so much persuasion, I finally accepted we should have sex. After the sexual intercourse, he stopped picking my calls. He blocked my number on his phone and blocked me on all his social media handles. Truly, the guy change drastically after sex. I feel so ashamed right now especially when I learnt from someone that he makes fun of me when having a conversation with his friends. I learnt my lesson in a hard way. One of my friends counselled that a man that truly loves you will wait till your wedding night and not ask for sex in a relationship. A few months ago, I started reading your articles. Though I am not a virgin, I feel so ashamed of myself. Because I allowed myself to be deceived by an ordinary man, a mere mortal! Truly, chastity is the best and the word of God is the truth! Now I understand why the scripture says we should flee from all forms of fleshly lust. I cry a lot especially at night because the pain is still deep in my heart. In fact, I’m crying as I write and I pray God forgive me and send the right man destined for me. Right now, I will wait patiently till my wedding night. Please let other girls see this and learn from my experience. Also, please remember me in your prayers. Thanks ma. Girls, girls, girls, Hmmm…I’ve responded appropriately to the above lady and I’m sure she would be fine. But what do you expect a guy who has no serious lifetime commitment/contract with you (like marriage) to do when he’s surrounded by many girls/ladies who are in fact chasing him to get laid by him? I’m so sorry about what happened to the lady above but quite frankly what do you expect when you choose the devil over God? Of course, you get nothing but shame, reproach and agony. I keep saying because your pastors don’t emphasise on ungodly sex doesn’t mean it’s okay for you to engage in it! Some of you are unfortunately so bland and blind in spirit such that you place your entire existence on guys and go about like life wouldn’t be worth living if you don’t have one boyfriend you’re sleeping with! What in the world has come over you? Some of you feel if a guy promises to marry you like most of them do, you might as well let him have carnal knowledge of you! May you not sleep with 50 men before age 22 and end up with none of them in marriage! YES!!! I know what I’m talking about! Can you please have some shame? It’s absolutely wrong for a guy who’s not your husband to see your nakedness! Some ladies have even forgotten the number of guys they’ve slept with all in the name of having a relationship! May your destiny not be scattered to pieces!!! To be continued I invite you to follow me on Facebook –TEMILOLU OKEOWO Instagram @ Okeowotemilolu Are you still engaging in pre-marital sex? Each act devalues you! Your wonders are waiting to start. God is waiting for you to become a secondary virgin! You are most welcome on board the chastity campaign train and Girls Club is open for all girls and ladies. Please text your name, age, school or occupation and state of domicile to 07086620576.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com