•Media freedom under attack, NGE laments The President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), on Monday, directed government information managers to ensure that journalists and the general public have access to government information “without tears.” According to a statement by his Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Femi Adesina, the president gave the directive in commemoration of this year’s World Press Freedom Day which is celebrated on May 3 of every year. Adesina quoted the president as reiterating his regime’s commitment to freedom of the press, pledging to continue ensuring the protection of the rights and privileges of journalists in the lawful performance of their professional duties. In line with the theme of this year’s World Press Freedom Day, “Journalism under digital siege,” Buhari assured stakeholders that government agencies under his watch will always stand against actions that are capable of limiting the preservation of the freedom of the press guaranteed by the constitution. The statement quoted Buhari as saying that, ‘‘We must stay united in supporting media professionals who work hard to de-escalate violent conflict and promote peaceful societies without compromising the responsibility to report,’’ adding that he urged “government information managers to ensure that the press and the general public have access to facts and figures of government information, without tears.” The President said the Federal Government was working hard to support media organisations in Nigeria through provision of better internet access to underserved communities, and achieve 95 per cent digital literacy by 2030. He charged the Nigerian press to use the World Press Freedom Day to reflect on the need to embrace the best professional standards and practices, especially in the build-up to the forthcoming general elections. He noted that the free performance of media roles and responsibilities during the electoral process is as important as the sanctity and will of Nigerians, expressed through the ballot box. With the elections in sight, the president urged the media to be mindful of sponsored political news or publications capable of inciting hatred, division, violence, and chaos in the country, while also ensuring that the electoral umpire and other stakeholders play their roles in delivering free, fair, credible and transparent elections to Nigerians. Also, the  President of the Senate, Ahmad Lawan, has felicitated with Nigerian journalists as they mark the World Press Freedom Day, while commending the ‘Fourth Estate of the Realm’ for “doing a great job in holding the mirror to the society, speaking truth to power and insisting on government being accountable to the people.” Lawan, who acknowledged that men of the pen profession in Nigeria have made heroic contributions to the society and have continued to do so at great costs, said the theme of the 2022 edition, ‘Journalism under digital siege,’ is to draw attention to “surveillance and digitally-mediated attacks on journalists” around the world in their course of duty. In a statement issued on Monday by the Special Adviser (Media) to President of the Senate, Ola Awoniyi, titled ‘Senate President Hails Nigerian Journalists on World Press Freedom Day,’ Lawan assured journalists in Nigeria that the National Assembly would continue to protect them and enhance the practice of their noble profession through legislation. Meanwhile, the Nigerian Guild of Editors has raised the alarm that media freedom is under serious attacks. This was contained in a statement signed by the guild’s President, Mustapha Isah,  and the General Secretary, Iyobosa Uwugiaren, to mark this year’s World Press Freedom Day. The NGE pointed out that democracy is endangered when free press is threatened and unprotected, adding that the impact on the state of democracy in the country will be very dangerous, if not checked. “Today is a day globally to remind governments of the need to respect their commitment to press freedom. It is also a day of reflection among journalists and other media professionals about issues of press freedom and professional ethics. “We need to remind governments at all levels in Nigeria that a free and independent media that can keep the people informed and hold leaders accountable, is essential for a strong and sustainable democracy, including free and fair elections. Without it, Nigerians cannot make informed decisions about how they are governed; and address human rights abuses, corruption and abuse of power,” the editors stated. The guild accused elected leaders in the country of trying to use legislation to criminalise journalism practice in the country in an attempt to silence the media. According to the NGE, journalists carrying out their legitimate editorial assignments have been attacked by overzealous security operatives. The editors lamented that it almost became impossible for the media sector to carry out its constitutional responsibility for the benefit of the citizens due to the attempts “to criminalise journalism practice in the country through their obnoxious proposed laws, the suffocating economic environment and harsh political/economic policies of the Federal Government.” “There is an urgent need to protect the media; because the impact of the suffocating economic and political environment being created by the government will be very dangerous to our democracy. A threat to the media is a threat to our democracy. “Governments at all levels must take the lead in making sure that their actions do not inspire violations of press freedom. A democratic society like Nigeria should know that it has a crucial role to play in maintaining media freedom and facilitating access to public information. “Government should regularly take strong and immediate actions against any violation of media freedom – this should include speaking out against violence against journalists and authorities’ failure/refusal to identify and prosecute attackers,” the NGE stated. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com