Former President of the Senate, Dr Bukola Saraki, has promised to deploy modern technology to tackle security challenges in the country if elected President. Saraki, a presidential aspirant on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party, made the promise on Sunday while speaking shortly after meeting with the Kogi State PDP delegates in Lokoja. “Desperate situation needs desperate action; the security situation in the country requires stringent measures and not ordinary approach. “I have the prerequisite knowledge of how we can deploy modern technology to tackle the spate of security challenges currently ravaging the country, and I will bring them to bear when I become President,” he said. The two-term governor of Kwara State who faulted the over dependence of the economy on oil, promised to pursue economic diversification vigorously if given the opportunity to serve as President. He told the delegates that his decision to vie for the Presidential position is to give the zone a sense of belonging. “I am yours, you are mine, and we both have great history dating to our forefathers. I am here to ask that we work together. North Central should produce the next President; it’s a task we should join hands together to accomplish, we are so close to making history,” he said. Saraki, however, cautioned against allowing aspirants with low capacity and capability so as not to give the zone a bad name. He added, “Every office I ever occupied, I left them better than I met them. I will also make Nigeria better; all Senate Presidents produced by the North Central in the past have done better. I will improve on their achievements. “When I become President, I will bring investments. We need a President who knows how to create jobs, it will happen during our time. I will work every day to create jobs; we have been working for them. It’s time for them to work for us.” “We are talking not only for today but for generations yet unborn; I have the knowledge on how to create jobs. “This project is the result of all leaders from North Central coming together to say it’s our turn, I will stand up for the entire country, I will unite every part of the country. Give it to me; I will stand up for you.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com