The Independent National Electoral Commission on Tuesday said investigation has commenced on the fire incident which ravaged its office in Kaura Namoda Local Government Area of Zamfara State. The incident was said to have occurred around 11pm on Monday with no casualties, while critical materials such Permanent Voters’ Cards and registration machine for the ongoing Continuous Voter Registration exercise stored in fireproof cabinets were saved. INEC National Commissioner and Chairman of its Information and Voter Education Committee, Festus Okoye, said these in a statement issued in Abuja. He said, “The Resident Electoral Commissioner for Zamfara State, Prof. Sa’idu Ahmed, has reported that our office in Kaura Namoda Local Government Area was gutted by fire. “The tragic incident occurred around 11pm on Monday, May 2, 2022. No casualties were reported while critical materials such Permanent Voters’ Cards and registration machine for the ongoing Continuous Voter Registration exercise stored in fireproof cabinets were saved. “However, the building was extensively damaged. A number of fixed and movable office furniture were destroyed in spite of the best effort of the Zamfara State Fire Service and the spirited efforts of good Samaritans to contain the inferno. “The attention of the Nigeria Police has been drawn to this incident. Together with the Fire Service, they have commenced investigation to ascertain the cause of the fire and advise the commission for further action.”  All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com