Former Nigeria head coach, Sunday Oliseh, has tipped Real Madrid to win the 2021/2022 Champions League. He made the prediction in an interview with The PUNCH on Saturday. According to the former Super Eagles captain, Real Madrid have enough experience to withstand Liverpool pressure. He said, “I think Real Madrid have an edge in terms of how they managed the games they have played. They now have a coach who plays to the strength of their team and knows when to make those good substitutions to swing the game to his side. “They won’t be bullied by Liverpool’s aggressive pressing because of their wealth of experience.” The PUNCH had reported that Liverpool manager Jurgen Klopp was able to name influential midfielders Fabinho and Thiago Alcantara in his side for Saturday’s Champions League final against Real Madrid after the pair recovered from muscle injuries. Fabinho has not featured since sustaining a muscular injury in a 2-1 win at Aston Villa on May 10. Thiago was brought off at half-time of Liverpool’s 3-1 win over Wolves last weekend nursing an Achilles problem. Klopp opted for Ibrahima Konate in defence ahead of Joel Matip as he looks to combat the speed of Madrid’s left winger Vinicius Junior. Madrid boss Carlo Ancelotti makes just one change from the side that started the second leg of their dramatic semi-final win over Manchester City. The fit-again David Alaba replaces Nacho, but there is no place in the starting line-up for Eduardo Camavinga or Rodrygo despite their starring role off the bench in Real’s run to the final. Gareth Bale and Eden Hazard are also included on the Madrid bench. Line-ups Liverpool
Formation 4-3-3
Alisson — Alexander-Arnold, Konaté, Van Dijk, Robertson — Henderson, Fabinho, Thiago — Salah, Mane, Díaz Substitutes
Milner, Keïta, Firmino, Gomez, Oxlade-Chamberlain, Jones, Minamino
Jota, Tsimikas, Matip, Kelleher, Elliott Real Madrid
Formation 4-3-3
Courtois — Carvajal, Militão, Alaba, Mendy — Modric, Casemiro, Kroos —
Valverde, Benzema, Vinícius Substitutes
Nacho, Hazard, Asensio, Marcelo, Lunin, Vázquez, Bale, Ceballos, Rodrygo
Isco, Mariano, Camavinga, Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com