NIGERIAN and CSKA Moscow forward Chidera Ejuke may miss out on next season’s European competitions after UEFA announced on Monday it had banned Russian clubs from participating in the Champions League and all other European competitions next season. Russian clubs and national teams were suspended until further notice by Europe’s football governing body in the wake of the country’s invasion of Ukraine. “Russia will have no affiliated clubs participating in UEFA club competitions in the 2022/23 season,” it said in a statement. The Russian Premier League, which is in week 27, has Zenit Saint Petersburg crowned champions of the league last Saturday with 61 points, with just seven matches to the end of the season and also claimed the only automatic slot for the Champions League. Meanwhile, Dynamo Moscow, PFC Sochi and CSKA Moscow are all in contention to claim the second position and finish runners-up. The runners-up were due to enter the competition in the third qualifying round. Ejuke and his team currently occupy the fourth position in the league and are five points behind Dynamo, who sit second on the log with 52 points. Should they fail to usurp their rivals come the end of the season, the Militarians as CSKA are fondly called, could play in either the Europa League or the Conference League. However, the decision by UEFA means Ejuke may likely not feature in Europe next season should he continue with the club, while the automatic qualifying spot in next season’s Champions League group stage that would have gone to Zenit is now set to go to the winners of this season’s Scottish Premiership. Other Nigerians affected by the sanctions are Jonathan Okoronkwo and Ifeanyi Nduka, who both play for Krasnodar in the Russian league. The two Nigerians have helped guide their club to fifth position with 42 points and have played a game less. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com