The senator representing Plateau South in the National Assembly, Professor Nora Daduut, on Friday, announced that she would not seek re-election in the forthcoming 2023 polls. Addressing a press conference in Jos on Friday, Daduut, a first-term lawmaker who was elected to the Senate in December 2020 on the platform of the APC after the death of the former occupant, said she would vacate the seat at the end of her tenure to enable others to contribute their quotas for the development of the constituency and the state. The Senator said, “I want to use this opportunity to clear the air on some ongoing rumors and unverified reports carried by some online and electronic media (not PUNCH), alleging that I am seeking re-election and have been denied the opportunity by some major political actors in the state and that I was attacked and threatened to back down from the race of the senatorial seat. “I, Senator Nora Daduut want to emphatically stress that I have never contemplated seeking re-election at any point in time, nor endeavored to procure a nomination/interest form for the Plateau South Senatorial District race. Secondly, I have never informed anyone that my life was threatened because of the senatorial seat I currently occupy.” Daduut denied having any rift with the state Governor, Simon Lalong, saying “His Excellency, Governor Simon Lalong, has been very supportive and I do appreciate all his support thus far. No rift whatsoever exists between me and the State Governor. Any rumour that I have been threatened by Governor Lalong is baseless, false, and mere blackmail which should be disregarded.” The senator also condemned an attack on her convoy by hoodlums in the Qua-anpan Local Government Area of the state when she went to commission a project in the area According to her, “What happened in Namu District of Quaanpan Local Government Council on April 28, 2022, after the commissioning of the Information Communication Technology Centre, Namu, in my senatorial district, was an act of criminality by hoodlums, dissident enemies of progress and detractors protesting the arrest of some suspected criminals. Unfortunately, my entourage, including that of the members of the Nigerian Union of Journalists who went to cover my event got caught up in it.” The senator urged the people of her senatorial district to remain peaceful and continue to be their brother’s keeper at all times. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com