The National Chairman, Inter-Party Advisory Council, a coalition of the 18 registered political parties in Nigeria, Yabagi Sani, before the extension of the deadline for political parties primaries by six days, spoke with FRIDAY OLOKOR on the 2023 general elections, restructuring and other issues You raised public consciousness of Nigerians that the Independent National Electoral Commission should shift the deadline for primaries. What prompted that demand? The demand was made out of our commitment to ensuring that we get the 2023 elections right and that we can provide Nigerians with credible people who will superintend over our affairs so that we don’t end up with the kind of crisis we have today. And that was why we wanted INEC to take a second look at the timetable because one, this Electoral Law, this is the first time we are putting it to test. Number two, the Electoral Law, unlike others, has a lot of consequences, not only for the national chairman and national secretaries but for the parties. If for instance, you submit a name of a candidate whose papers are false, you are liable to pay an N10m fine, maybe other punishments that the court may decide. So aside from the issue of the consequences of mistakes that can happen and anything that is done in a haste, you are bound to make mistakes; so parties need time to ensure that we do the job of selecting candidates properly. INEC keeps saying that they gave us two months, but if you look at it critically within the two months we had the holidays. Within the two months, the period we are talking about, we are also going to prepare for the Osun and Ekiti elections. People are apprehensive that INEC has refused to register more parties, despite over 100 applications. Are you not bothered? If not, why? Well you see, when you are close to a major election like this, perhaps it may make sense to say let me not add more problems to what I already have because managing political parties during an election is not easy because processes are still largely manual even with the Electoral Act 2022 (as amended). Except for the transmission of the results from polling units and the accreditation of voters, all the remaining processes are still manual. So you will find that INEC may want to say ‘let us just manage what we have’  because the constitution does not say they cannot, they can always. Although the constitution says after 30 days,  if you do not receive any response from INEC, consider yourself registered as a political party. But I am sure INEC must have responded to them. They may have been given valid reasons why they are not registered, but we feel that people should be given their inalienable rights as enshrined in the constitution to associate with whoever they want to associate with provided that they are not stepping on anybody’s balms. So we will like to encourage INEC to ensure that as soon as possible, they should register the political parties because Nigeria is a very big country and I am sure we will like a situation where democracy takes roots that will deepen the roots of democracy of this country. Another issue that has been a source of worry to people is the eminent exclusion of statutory delegates, especially for elections, the primaries. There is the potent fear, are you apprehensive? I am only worried to the extent that it will abridge their rights and disenfranchise them. So, that is the only worry I have. Otherwise, if the law does not recognise them, that is the Act, the warnings would be that, won’t these people go to court that they are being disenfranchised unnecessarily? The constitution gives them this right and then, of course, the provisions of the constitution supersede any other subsidiary laws. An Act, of course, is very low as far as the constitution is concerned. So perhaps people may go to court. And even on Section 84, how are you sure that those people that were denied will not go to court as they have cases in the Supreme Court now to give an interpretation? So the question is when and if the Supreme Court says that it is their right to contest, what do we do? We go back and conduct primaries again to include these people that were excluded just like as you are talking about the statutory delegates? So there are a lot of booby traps that political parties are trying to avoid and ensure they do not in any way affect the smooth running of this programme. It was suggested that provided it’s still within the 180 days, two months will be okay. But some members of the civil societies kicked against shifting the date for primaries… Civil societies? Leave them alone. Civil society organisations! How many members do they have? Some of them are just the person, his wife, his brother, and one or two other people who are making noise all over the place. They are not like political parties that are managing millions of people. How many people are members of civil societies group? They can make a noise;  they can do academic exercises but the reality is what we are saying, we are the ones wearing the shoes. We know where they pinche and this is not about an academic argument that we are talking about, this is about realities, practical things that affect people directly. What do they know? We are not talking about noise making. We are talking about practical things that will happen that will affect this country in a manner that if care is not taken it may even make nonsense of everything that INEC is doing. The Electoral Act that we have, if you are told to evaluate it, what are the salient points that you feel you are comfortable with and the ones that you are not comfortable with? Certainly, what I am comfortable with is the issue of ensuring that INEC gets their budgets in good time before the exercise. Issues like when somebody is forced to declare results, such results can be nullified. And of course, the electronic transmission of the results from the polling unit is a big plus. But the downside of it is that the processes are largely manual and our problem has always been the points at which people compromise the process like the polling units, and the collation centres. But INEC is not going to use the portal to count your votes, they are going to use the manual collection and processes to still announce the results. So to me, it is a big minus because it can be compromised. It doesn’t appear that the African Democratic Party is fielding a presidential candidate in 2023? Why? Who told you? No party has fielded any presidential candidate as far as I am concerned. Where are the aspirants? They are coming until we do our primaries. And you have not made any noise about it? You know they say empty barrels make the loudest noise because there is nothing in those places where you are hearing so much noise. So will you say PDP and APC…? They are empty barrels, you know it more than me. What have they given this country all along? Bad governance. Can’t you see the way they are fighting one another? Do you expect something to come out of that place? Now as the chairman of the umbrella body of the 18 political parties, IPAC, what would you think that the parties should specifically demand as negotiation from these candidates? Well yes, political parties can demand some kind of evidence of capacity and accountability of people that are coming forward to contest. But I think a lot rests on the masses, the electorate because parties differently will ask and will ensure that you meet the constitutional requirements for the various offices. The rest is up to the electorate. It is not what IPAC says or not because you must know that IPAC is a voluntary association that people subscribe to. So there is a limit to how much we can force the parties to do what they don’t want to do or not to do what they want to do. But of course, we can always advise and our advice is that we must be sure that the people we are putting forward for Nigerians to elect are credible. They are people that have empathy for the Nigerian people, the laws of the land, are proud of Nigeria and are concerned about what is happening in the country. That is why we always say the ADP is the credible alternative and Nigeria should come to the ADP because we know that we have what it takes; we know that Nigeria is not difficult to govern. It can’t be difficult to govern when God has given you all these things that He has given to this country in terms of natural resources,  human capital, population, and even the location of this country, on the equator. These are things that you don’t find in many countries and we are number six, for God’s sake, among the crude oil-exporting countries and number three when it comes to gas, so this country has no business with poverty,  insecurity and unemployment. So if we come to power, that is the ADP, Nigerians will be surprised that this country can be great as it is now. The people will be provided with their basic requirements for welfare and security, which we can deliver. Does IPAC believe in the restructuring of this country? I laugh when somebody asked if we believed in the restructuring of this country. What do you think is the job of the National Assembly? Essentially, it is just about what you have on the concurrent list and what you have on the exclusive list of the constitution. By the time the National Assembly sits down and looks at it and says agriculture today is on the exclusive legislative list, let’s take it to the concurrent list, that is restructuring and by the time you look at all the other lists of the constitution, you are restructuring the country in a way that will not in any way upset the other settled issues in this country. That is why restructuring shouldn’t be a political issue. It should be an issue of governance that government and the National Assembly should attend to as we move on because nothing is static in life, we can’t be static, we can’t just be the way we are now, no, we have to change. What are your fears for the 2023 elections? The only that I think I have, I don’t have any fears per se,  but I hope is that Nigerians will wake up and know that you can’t continue to do the same thing, the same way and expect different results, meaning that you can’t continue to vote for these two parties and expect that something will be different in terms of what this country will experience in terms of greatness. These people have nothing to give and you can’t give what you don’t have; so this is why I hope that Nigerians in our numbers will now realise that no, we have to take a different path now, we have trodden this path too long and we can’t allow this accident waiting to happen.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com