The Peoples Democratic Party aspirants in Anambra State have raised the alarm over their ineligibility to contest 2023 national and state House of Assembly elections. The aspirants, therefore, issued a 24-hour ultimatum to the National Working Committee of the party to conduct the state congress. They noted with dismay the failure of the Jibrin Ahmed-led committee to conduct the three-man ad-hoc delegate election that was to hold on April 30 but was rescheduled to May 1, due to the unavailability of original result sheets. The Ahmed-led panel which was supposed to hold the state congress on April 30 had suspended the exercise due to its inability to provide original copies of result sheets for the electoral exercise. But in a communique after a meeting of all the aspirants who have purchased nomination forms to contest the 2023 general elections, the aspirants called on the national leadership of the party to “expeditiously” repeat the botched exercise on Thursday, May 5, 2022. The.125 aspirants of the party signed the communique after the meeting held at the party’s Secretariat in Awka on Thursday. They noted that the move became necessary so as not to jeopardize the aspirants’ chances in the 2023 elections.
He said in the event of the exigency of time, the party leadership should allow the already existing ward and LGA executives to go ahead to conduct the primaries. He said, “This is a meeting of all aspirants under the platform of PDP who have purchased nomination forms to contest the 2023 general elections. “We note with pain and dismay the inability of Jibrin Ahmed-led committee to conduct the three-man ad-hoc delegate election that was to hold on April 30 but was rescheduled to May 1, 2022, due to unavailability of original result sheets. “We passionately call on the National leadership of our great party PDP to expeditiously repeat the botched exercise on Thursday, May 5, 2022 so as not to jeopardize our chances in the 2023 elections. “Or in the event of the exigency of time, the already existing ward and LGA executives can go ahead to conduct the primaries. The same committee for the repeat of Ad Hoc Congress could equally be mandated to conduct the national delegate elections the next day. “We reaffirm our resolution in our meeting with the panel set up by the national leadership of our party headed by H. E. Arapaja in a stakeholders meeting held in the national office of our party on April 26, 2022, that the state Congress of our party should be concluded, which we were later informed that it has been scheduled by the National Working Committee. “We pray that it should be held as scheduled so that we have a state leadership of the party to lead our campaigns for the forthcoming general elections and for peace and stability of the party in Anambra State. “We reaffirm our confidence in the leadership of our great party and trust their ability to lead us to victory in the forthcoming general elections.” The spokesperson for the aspirants, Onyebuchi Offor, read the communiqué. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com