The Governor of Sokoto State and presidential aspirant on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party, Aminu Tambuwal, says the PDP will recapture Imo State if he becomes the nation’s President in 2023. Tambuwal, who spoke when he consulted the Imo State chapter of the PDP on his presidential aspiration, said if elected, his Presidency would quench insecurity in the South-East, which he blamed on the alleged sidelining of the region by the regime of the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari( retd.). According to him, the South-East people feel cheated that Buhari left them out in the scheme of things in his regime. He said, “Buhari has shortchanged the South- East.  I was the one who advised Saraki to choose Ike Enweremadu to become his deputy in 2015. There is a complete case of exclusion of the people of South-East. The head of the 10 most important parastatals, including the CBN (Central Bank of Nigeria) are not from the South-East. “None of the Service Chiefs is from the South-East. The President, the Vice President, the Senate President, the Deputy Senate President, the Speaker of the House of Representatives and his deputy are not from the South-East. Under my watch, that can’t happen. Every part of this country will be carried along. “The South-East and Imo, in particular, can’t be excluded. The PDP will win back Imo when I become President. Igbo people are industrious. You will find a partner in me. We are working together with our brothers in Sokoto. We have restored normalcy now in Sokoto State. I will be a President for all Nigerians.” A former governor of Imo State, Emeka Ihedioha, said Tambuwal was the right person to lead the country after Buhari. Ihedioha said Tambuwal had the capacity to fix the country and broker religious harmony between Christians and Muslims.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com