An Ekiti State Chief Magistrate’s Court, Ado Ekiti District, has sentenced a 26-year-old convict, Femi Ayelegun, to seven years imprisonment without an option of a fine. Ayelegun was arraigned on two counts bordering on stealing. The charges read in part, “The convict, sometime in 2021 at Okuta-Gbokuta-lori area of Ado Ekiti, Ekiti State, did unlawfully steal a phone, valued at N45,000 inside a Nissan Almera Tino car with number plate KLE 71AA, property of one Omoyajowo Olumide. “While committing the crime, he also broke the front door glass of the same car and stole a handbag containing N200,000, a Dell laptop valued at N240,000, and a phone valued at N62,000, property of Mrs Victim Fajuyigbe. “The offence is contrary to and punishable under Section 302(6) of the Criminal Code, Laws of Ekiti State of Nigeria, 2021.” Ayelegun pleaded guilty to the charges. The police prosecutor, Sergeant Sodiq Adeniyi, who noted that the convict was arrested after much effort by the police, said, “The convict is a habitual criminal. He has been imprisoned three times in the past.” He urged the court to give him the right punishment. In his statement before the court, the convict said, “I have stolen many phones; I cannot remember the number. I normally sell the phones to Hausa people at the Atikankan area of Ado Ekiti. I am an ex-convict; I have been to prison three times.” Counsel for the convict, Kayode Oyeyemi, prayed the court to temper justice with mercy. Chief Magistrate Dolamu Williams said, “If the defendant is given a minimum sentence, he will still be a burden to the society and to himself. “In view of this, the defendant is sentenced to seven years’ imprisonment as provided in Section 302(1)(b) of the Criminal Code Laws of Ekiti State, 2021.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com