…as Eagles striker hints at Feyenoord stay Feyenoord striker Cyriel Dessers has been named in the Europa Conference League team of the season, PUNCH Sports Extra reports. The 27-year-old finished as the tournament’s top marksman with 10 goals and one assist. Roma claimed their first UEFA trophy on Wednesday with a 1-0 win over Feyenoord in the inaugural Conference League final. Nicolo Zaniolo grabbed the decisive goal for the Giallorossi, but his attacking colleagues were preferred in a best XI named on Friday. Leading scorer Abraham and captain Lorenzo Pellegrini were among four Roma players recognised, with goalkeeper Rui Patricio and centre-back Chris Smalling also included after inspired performances against Feyenoord. Italy midfielder Pellegrini scooped the top individual award, but Feyenoord were also well represented, including young player of the year honours for Luis Sinisterra. Sinisterra registered 10 goal involvements (six goals and four assists) throughout the tournament, second only to Dessers. Both Feyenoord forwards made the cut for the team selection, alongside defenders Lutsharel Geertruida, Gernot Trauner and Tyrell Malacia. Dimitri Payet was also included, as well as sealing the goal of the season award for his sweetly struck effort against PAOK in Marseille’s quarter-final. Europa Conference League team of the season: Rui Patricio (Roma); Lutsharel Geertruida (Feyenoord), Chris Smalling (Roma), Gernot Trauner (Feyenoord), Tyrell Malacia (Feyenoord); Lorenzo Pellegrini (Roma), Dimitri Payet (Marseille), Kiernan Dewsbury-Hall (Leicester City), Luis Sinisterra (Feyenoord); Cyriel Dessers (Feyenoord), Tammy Abraham (Roma). Meanwhile,  Dessers has hinted he may stay at the Eredivisie club beyond this season. Genk are asking for four million euros for Dessers which is quite a huge amount for Feyenoord. The 27-year-old has revealed he had discussions with Feyenoord Technical Director Frank Arnesen and shared what he was told. “We will talk further in the coming days, but it will be by phone,’ that’s exactly what he (Arnesen) said,” Dessers stated as quoted by NU. “I will travel straight to the United States to play with Nigeria (in an international friendly against Mexico).” The Super Eagles striker also commented on the Conference League final loss to the Italian outfit. He hailed the Yellow and Reds defence, especially former Manchester United centre-back Chris Smalling who won the man of the match award. “They are ruthless. Even if the ball is not close, they come with elbows, scratch, and pull. Everything is allowed,” Dessers continued. “I was always against three defenders and if I won one game, then the next was already there. They were also all a lot bigger. Chris Smalling has not become man of the match for nothing. He especially made it very difficult for me (on Wednesday).” Roma had limited chances on goal as opposed to Feyenoord, but it was the Italians who carried the day courtesy of Nicolo Zaniolo’s strike. “They get through it once and then it’s right on target. The way it happens may hurt extra,” Dessers concluded. “Perhaps that is the difference between the current Feyenoord and the AS Roma of Jose Mourinho at the moment.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com