The Federal Pay Office Complex, Kano, under the Office of the Accountant General of the Federation has been commissioned. The commissioning ceremony took place on Tuesday in Kano as part of the transformation in terms of infrastructure and staff welfare embarked upon by the Accountant General of the Federation. In a keynote address, Minister of Finance, Zainab Shamsuna Ahmad, hailed the level of transformation undertaken in the treasury, the drive for professionalism and diligence employed in deepening the Federal Government’s Public Financial Management Reform Initiatives. She also thanked the Kano State governor, Abdullahi Ganduje, for providing the land in a prime location and support for Federal Government’s policies and extending support for its agencies. “I must say it is heart-warming to see the level of transformation undertaken in the Treasury under the leadership of the AGF. “The drive for professionalism and the diligence employed in deepening the Federal Government Public Finance Management Reform Initiatives is quite commendable” she stated. “The new office accommodation is provided to ensure that you have a decent working environment to further boost your morale, increasing your commitment to work and enhancing your productivity,” she added. Meanwhile, at the opening ceremony of the 3rd retreat for internal auditors in Finance Reforms in Kano on Tuesday, Ahmed called for prudent management of public funds through the financial management reforms being developed and coordinated by the office of the Accountant-General of the Federation. The Minister, who was represented by a Permanent Secretary, Special Duties in the ministry, Ahmed Shinkafi, said the call was necessary in a view of the dwindling revenue profiles of the country and the attendant challenges on the cash flow.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com