The Chief Whip of the Senate, Senator Orji Uzor Kalu, has urged the Independent National Electoral Commission not to listen to the calls for an extension of the deadline for political parties to conduct their primaries, adding that INEC had given enough time including adequate reminders to parties. In a statement on Wednesday, Kalu stated that “most Nigerians do not respect and keep time, that is why appointments are not kept and people continue to give flimsy excuses”, adding that INEC must punish any party that failed to meet up with the deadline. The statement partly read, “The Independent National Electoral Commission has been inundated with calls to extend the conduct of Primary elections beyond June 3. The commission had in February earmarked April 4 to June 3 for the conduct of party primaries. “Amidst these calls for extension, I urge INEC to take disciplinary actions on any party that fails to meet up with the designated dates.
INEC made the dates known as early as February and kept a reminder to all parties through March and April about the commission’s plan to stick to the timetable. “It is therefore embarrassing and speaks volumes of the indiscipline in this country for any party to advocate for the extension of date. Most Nigerians do not respect and keep time, that is why appointments are not kept and people continue to give flimsy excuses. “What have the political parties been doing since February? Is that how to behave in a country? What is the actual benefit of not keeping to rules? INEC should understand that if it succumbs to the pressure of shifting it to a fresh date, the parties would still request for another grace of extension thereby causing confusion everywhere. “I encourage INEC to stand firm on their decision and deliver as promised.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com