The Minister of Defence, Major-Gen. Bashir Magashi (retd), has urged Nigeria Armed Forces to review the armed forces law to ensure that they were in tandem with prevailing realities. Magashi who stated this at the four days Defence Retreat in Asaba, said the ministry of Defence will continue to provide administrative support and place a premium on defence procurements. He said, “The retreat in Asaba is necessary to review the operations of the military and tailor them to meet the country’s security challenges. “Federal Government had invested heavily on military equipment, but there was still a lot to be done in spite of the successes recorded so far. “I urge officers to review the laws of the armed force to ensure that you are in tandem with prevailing realities. The Ministry of Defence will continue to provide administrative support and place premium on defence procurements. “We look forward to deliberations that will produce implementable solutions to the myriads of security challenges facing the nation” Speaking earlier, Chief of Defence Staff, Gen. Lucky Irabor, said that the four-day brainstorming event by the top echelon of serving and retired military officers would help to reshape the military toward fighting future security challenges. “It was identified that we need to give definite and unambiguous direction to the development of our doctrines that will enable us to operate seamlessly and effectively. “Hence, the National Military Strategy was developed to provide a platform upon which our joint and respective Services doctrines will stand,” Irabor stated. The defence chief said that the implementation of these strategies would not achieve the much-desired goals if we do not open a less theoretical means of forging ahead. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com