Labour Party on Wednesday made history as the first political party to produce a presidential candidate for the 2023 election. A businessman in the petroleum sector,
Sampson Uchenna Charles, represented by the Deputy National Youth Leader of his Campaign Organisation, Aminu Bello, submitted his form at the Headquarters of the LP with a promise to radically transform national security architecture and “settle all labour disputes in Nigeria.” He was joined by many supporters that came to submit the form at the party secretariat in Abuja, as part of fulfilling all procedures of nomination and expression of interest for the office of the President. Charles who returned his N30 million form to the Labour Party and was received by its Chairman, Julius Abure,
said Nigeria deserved the best from her government and not the spate of insecurity and elongated labour issues that undermined the human resources in the country. The Director-General of the Charles Presidential Campaign Organization,
Dr. Damsump Danjuma, who read a speech on his behalf maintained that he would radically transform Nigeria, security architecture to work for the people. He said, “I respectfully urge you our comrades to ensure that our votes count in the 2023 elections and that the Labour Party remains our choice. “The LP government will tackle every labour dispute that has to do with Nigerians and workers with utmost respect and sincerity. There will be a radical transformation of our security and intelligence architecture. “I will ensure adequate remuneration and welfare of the Nigerian worker and advance the overhauls of our decade infrastructure, especially power, roads, railway etc to boasts economic and entrepreneurial drives nationally. “I will transform our agricultural system to modern mechanization and developing the family to improve the value chain. I will also transform our education system to meet our Nigeria requirements and compete with the global challenge. Above all, our cardinal objective will be the creation of job opportunities for our teeming youth and graduates and artisans. Abure maintained that Nigeria was already in shambles, given the poor leadership system that has led to deterioration of infrastructure, security and the economy. He said that all of these has undermined the the dictate of chapter two of the Nigerian constitution that tasked the government on good welfare for the people, and better living conditions, which he said has totally collapse because the All Progressives Congress government has failed. Abure said that the aspirant has fulfilled all the requirement of the party to be its presidential aspirant who would be elected at its presidential primaries during its convention slated for June. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com