The Senator representing Kogi West district, Smart Adeyemi, has raised an alarm over the threat to his life and that of his family members. Smart, who is a senatorial flag-bearer of the All Progressives Congress, made this known in a statement personally signed by him on Friday where he claimed to have been warned against contesting for the seat of the Kogi West senatorial district in the forthcoming election. The lawmaker who stated that he had since informed the relevant agencies of the development, however, did not disclose the identities of those who issued the threat. According to him, those to be held responsible should any harm comes to him or any of his family members have already and properly been documented with the appropriate security agencies. Adeyemi noted that his perceived enemies actually wanted him to drop his reelection bid to allow someone else to contest the poll, to satisfy a rotation arrangement. He, nevertheless, said the leaders in the senatorial district had asked him to ignore the threats and forge ahead with his ambition. Adeyemi further assured his supporters that nothing would stop him from contesting and that the will of the people would definitely prevail. The statement read in part, “After due deliberate consultations with very senior citizens and my constituents who believe in me, I have been urged and geared to go ahead and contest this election in continued service to my people. “I am therefore resolute to go ahead, irrespective of the consequences, as a free citizen of Nigeria. “I hereby call on well-meaning Nigerians, the masses whom I have always spoken for, as well as the international community, to evaluate my antecedents, my representations both now and in the time past.’ The Senator said he had no problem with anyone being anointed as the AIC candidate but maintained that such an arrangement should not be to the detriment of other aspirants. He added, “The allegations I am making is that certain individuals have been pencilled down as anointed candidates in the upcoming elections and I have absolutely, no problem with that. ” However, this must not be to the exclusion of any other candidate who is desirous of exercising his fundamental human rights.” He states, ” Every Nigerian has a right to run, and the voice of the people will and must prevail. I, therefore, see no reason why anybody’s life should be at stake for that reason. “The extent to the threat to my life is yet to be defined but they are quite potent and palpable, based on their utterances, and I quote, “… if he dares to contest.” “This had led me with no other options than to make a formal and urgent report to the relevant security agencies and top security officials within and outside the country. “Any threat to life should not be taken lightly. “Consequently and on this premise, Nigerians and the international community are by this statement, duly informed that the lives of my immediate family and I, are under severe threat. “Should any harm or eventuality come to any of us, we know those who are responsible for it and this has been duly registered in the appropriate quarters.” Senator Adeyemi returned to the Senate for a third term after a Court of Appeal in Abuja dismissed an appeal filed by the then incumbent lawmaker challenging the nullification of his victory in the general election. In line with the order of the court, the Independent National Electoral Commission conducted a fresh election on November 16, 2019. INEC was, however, forced to conduct a supplementary poll after the rerun election failed to produce a winner as it was said to have been marred by violence and other electoral malpractices. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com