Governor of Nasarawa State, Abdullahi Sule, has declared to recontest his position in the 2023 governorship election under the platform of the All Progressives Congress. Supporters of the governor under the aegis of Abdullahi Sule Amalgamated Support Groups, led by one Murtala Abubakar-Muhammad, had last week, purchased the APC N50 million expression of interest and nomination forms, aimed at compelling the governor to seek reelection. Declaring his intention to run for a second term in office on Tuesday in Lafia, Sule said he was recontesting the governorship seat in 2023 to justify the efforts of his supporters who had contributed their funds to purchase the forms for him. He said, “Some of these people who are barely making a living came together and raised the funds to buy the nomination and expression of interest forms for me to re-contest for the 2023 governorship election. “This gesture is very touchy and important to me so I cannot turn down their request. Therefore, I hereby declare to re-contest as governor in the 2023 election. “If other political parties come to contest against me, the works I have done in the past three years across the 13 Local Government Areas of the state will speak for me because residents of the state will not vote for them. “So, I dare any politician who is interested to contest against me to come out because I am battle ready to face any of them no matter their strength, that is if they have any.” Earlier, the State APC Chairman, John Mamman, said the governor had performed credibly since he was elected into office in 2019 and pledged the party’s full support for his second term bid. He said, “We as a party are here in the governor’s honour because we have great confidence in him. What he is doing for the residents of Nasarawa state in education, agriculture, investment and other sectors is commendable. “His focus, vision and mission to improve the well-being of residents and how he has been able to stabilize the state despite the paucity of funds are all laudable performances by him. “So, I want to give him the assurances of the APC and our teeming supporters in Nasarawa state of our support and we are appealing that he should answer our call to re-contest by accepting these forms that were bought for him while he was in Saudi Arabia for Lesser Hajj.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com