LAGOS State Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, on Tuesday assured journalists that the state will always ensure press freedom and encourage the media to play a critical role in democracy. Sanwo-Olu made the promises in a statement by the state Commissioner for Information and Strategy, Mr. Gbenga Omotoso, in commemoration of the 2022 World Press Freedom Day. He said, “Our administration will continue to encourage press freedom and provide an enabling environment for good journalism to flourish. “The theme, ‘Journalism under digital siege,’ lends credence to the need for professionals to confront the surveillance and digitally-mediated attacks on journalists and their trade. “The emergence of fake news, especially its dominance on digital and social media, has challenged the profession’s reputation as the channel of credible information. “Lagos State, being the biggest home of the media in Nigeria, will always ensure press freedom and encourage the fourth estate of the realm to play its critical role in our democracy without any obstacle.” Also, Gombe State Governor, Muhammadu Yahaya , said his administration would continue to work with journalists, as partners and critical allies, in his determination to entrench transparency, accountability, and openness in governance. He stated this in his goodwill message signed by the Director of Press, Government House, Ismaila Misilli. “As watchdogs of the society and voice of the people, journalists must continue to uphold the ethics of their profession by promoting the ideals of democracy, justice, accountability, peace, and unity as well as updating the general public on developments around the world through their reportage and editorial policies,” the governor said. He assured journalists in the state that his administration will continue to support the free flow of information and ensure pressmen were allowed to do their work in a safe and secure atmosphere. In the same vein, the Edo State Governor, Mr Godwin Obaseki, has commended journalists for their indispensable role in the development of the society, reassuring them of his government’s sustained support for them to excel in their profession. The governor, who urged journalists to embrace the noble ethics of the profession, said his government would continue to guarantee a conducive environment for journalists to thrive, allowing them to do their job freely, independently, and safely without fear of intimidation and harassment. “On our part as a government, we will continue to guarantee a safe and conducive environment for journalists to freely and independently deliver on their duties without fear of being harassed and intimidated,” he said. The Speaker of the Anambra State House of Assembly, Mr. Uche Okafor, in his goodwill message, called on the Federal Government to map out special remuneration for journalists in recognition of their contributions to the peace, progress and corporate existence of the country. Okafor described the press as the mirror of the society, adding that practising journalists deserve a good measure of treatment devoid of intimidation, harassment, or death to enable them to discharge their duties without fear or favour. The message was contained in a statement signed his media aide, Emma Madu. The Goodluck Jonathan Foundation called on governments and citizens to make commitments to defend journalism and journalists against attacks and tyranny. The GJF made the call in a statement by its Communications Officer, Wealth Ominabo.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com