The 1972-1976 Queen’s School Ibadan, Old Girls Association has rehabilitated the Domestic Science Laboratory at the school as one of its project to restore the school to its past glory. The renovated laboratory was inaugurated on Friday by Dr Wale Babalakin during the celebration of the 50th anniversary of admission of the old girls to the school. The President of the set, Obafunke Alade-Adeyefa, whose address was read by the Vice President, Titi Ahmadu, said although the old girls could not provide everything needed to transform the school, they would continue to do their best because education was very important to human development. She also advocated quality education as a means of addressing girl-child abuse, which, she noted, had become prevalent in the country. Alade-Adeyefa said, “Unfortunately, the cycle of marginalisation, abuse and limitations imposed on girls in not just our society but in the world, continues unabated. “It is, however, universally acknowledged that one sure-fire way of interrupting this unhealthy, potentially lethal cycle is through quality education of the girl-child.” “As evidenced by our own lives and experiences, there is no limiting a well-educated girl, glass ceiling or no glass ceiling. Girls and women are endlessly resourceful that way. Give us a mustard seed and we’ll turn it into a giant oak each and every time.” The Chairman of the Planning Committee of the 50th anniversary, Mrs Anu Ajayi, commended members of the set for their commitment towards restoration of the lost glory of the school. She called on government to pay more attention to education and the school. She described some dilapidated structures in the school as embarrassing but said the old girls would continue to assist their alma mater. Also speaking, the Commissioner for Commerce, Industry and Cooperatives, Dr Lola Akande, said, “Queen’s School is a great school and it’s a thing of pride for those of us who had the privilege to attend the school. “I will want those in charge of the school, that is the (Oyo) State Government, to take it up and improve its standards. The environment should be conducive and we will, on our part, continue to do what we have been doing.” The Principal of the school, Mrs Bamidele Oyinloye, commended the 1972-1976 set of old students, describing them as some of the very best, saying they had carried out many intervention projects in rehabilitating the school. Some of the old teachers, including those who had died, were honoured during the ceremony. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com