A Lagos prophet, Ejiro Ologonla, has been arraigned before Justice O.H. Oshodi of the Ikeja High Court, Lagos State, over the alleged kidnap of an undergraduate of the National Open University of Nigeria, Anthony Olatunfe, 29, who went missing in December 2019. PUNCH Metro had earlier reported that the student lived with the Special Adviser to Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu on Administration, Michael Ojomo, in the Victoria Island area of the state. Ojomo had telephoned the missing student’s father, Augustine Ojomo on December 12, 2019, to ask if he knew the whereabouts of his son, who had yet to return from an errand. The matter was reported at the Bar Beach Police Station as police operatives went into investigation and called the student’s phone number, which was answered by Ologonla, who claimed to have picked the phone at the bar beach. The student’s shoes, shirt, trousers and phone charger were allegedly found in the prophet’s house. The defendant was charged with three counts of stealing, kidnapping and manslaughter, contrary to Section 224 of the Criminal Law Cap.17 Vol. 3 Laws of Lagos State, 2015. The charges read in part, “Ejiro Ologonla, on or about December 12, 2020, at the Oniru Beach in Lagos Island, Lagos, in the Lagos Judiciary Division, did steal one Itel phone, one pair of trousers, one T-shirt and one pair of shoes belonging to one Anthony Olatunfe.” The prosecuting counsel, M.O. Abari, said witnesses in the case could not be reached, hence their absence from court. He said, “Most of the phone numbers of the witnesses are not reachable and a member of the family of the deceased, Ajiboye Jideola, who promised to be in court couldn’t make it down to court. “Another witness, Michael Ojomo, says he’s is in Abuja for an official assignment and princess Arike Oniru is still being persuaded to appear in court.” Abari pleaded with the court for further adjournment to bring the witnesses to court. The defence counsel did not object to the application. Justice Oshodi adjourned the matter till September 27, 2022, for trial.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com