Some private school owners in Ogun State have criticised the fee being charged for the digital documentation of schools in the state. A school owner in the Ifo Local Government axis who claimed anonymity said the government through a consultant charged each private school different fees at a ratio of the school’s population. “Why should the government through a consultant charge a school of zero to 100 pupils to pay N20,000 per term so as to be on the government’s portal and platform. They gave the project to a consultant who is also asking us for details about our students’ parents like their phone numbers and the school fee we charge. These are private information, they do not need them and we don’t have money to be on the government portal. Since they are the one who wants us to be on their portal why charge us?’’ Another school owner in Abeokuta said, ‘‘the government also wants us to get the learners’ education number. They told us that if we don’t get onboard on their portal, we will not be able to participate in unified examinations.’’ However, in a chat with The PUNCH, Commissioner for Education, Ogun State, Prof. Abayomi Arigbabu, said that the government was not charging for digitalisation of the private schools. ‘‘That is not true, the government is not charging anyone any money. What happened is that we asked them to come on board on the platform of the government which is a judicial initiative of the government on which we also have all our public schools. Anybody operating a public school in Ogun state must be on that platform because for us as a government, we regulate even what private school owners do. It is the government that gives them license to operate, so the learners are not their wards, they do not belong to them, they are Ogun state indigenes who ordinarily, the government would have provided free education but the government cannot do it alone, so every private school owner is also part of this, we embrace them but which information would you consider a secret to reveal, parents information is secret or student information is secret?’’ He added that the Ogun State government had a policy of digitalisation, saying, they could not afford to have an education sector without full information and data that could help to drive development in the sector. ‘‘We need to be able to say this is the number of students we have in our schools, when you digitalise you get accurate data. A few of them have raised this complaint but some are already complying, however, those complaining know that they will not be able to do so many other things, hence, the reason for complaints. “People have options, if they don’t want to abide by government regulations on the education management; they have options to decide not to be a school in Ogun State.  So if you want to be a school in Ogun State, once the government has policy, you have to key into the policy.’’ Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com