…offsets patients’ medical bills The member representing Ogoja/Yala constituency of Cross River State in the House of Representatives, Jude Ngaji, has commenced a solidarity and appreciation tour around his constituency to thank and appreciate his constituents for standing by him and voting him as their Member of Parliament during the last by-election in February 2022. Ngaji, who was the candidate of the All Progressives Congress in the February 26, 2022 by-election was recently sworn in by the Deputy Speaker of the House of Representatives, Ahmed Wase. The lawmaker demonstrated this love by using his first salary to attend to the needy and less privileged by purchasing medical equipment for some health centres in Yala and offsetting the medical bills of those in the health centres he visited. During the tour, Ngaji visited five health care centres namely: Comprehensive Health Centre, Wanihem, Lutheran Health Care Centre, Wanikade, and Primary Health Care Centre, Wanokom, all located in North-Ukelle, Yala Local Government Area, and Lutheran Hospital TBL unit, Ijiraga Health Care Centre, both in Yahe, Yala LGA. He also donated food items and cash to each of the patients in each of the health centres he visited, and also paid their medical bills. The Emeritus Bishop of the Lutheran Church, Bishop Mathew Okata, extolled the virtue of Ngaji and also prayed for the patients, asking God to grant them quick recovery in each of the health centres visited, while using the opportunity to endorse Ngaji for re-election in 2023, adding that his kind of representation was rare to find, hence should be encouraged and supported. “I’m seeing good things happening and also a great future for not just Ogoja/Yala federal constituency, but (for) Jude Ngaji as a person. His kind gesture is something to write home about. You know leadership is not negotiable. It is God’s special gift, from God for both service to God and service to humanity and I’m seeing him exhibiting these good leadership qualities. God will continue to elevate him,” the cleric added. One of the patients in Comprehensive Health Centre, Wanihem, Mr Ugban Monday, thanked the MP for his generosity and kind gesture and for remembering them within just one month in office. He, however, cried out to the government to give keen attention to the health centres because there was no good health care delivery from the health personnel and no drugs in the centres. A patient in the Lutheran Primary Healthcare, Mrs. Beatrice Paul, also commended the MP and prayed for God’s continuous blessings upon him for remembering them in their trying times. Another beneficiary, simply identified as Monday, said he was particularly grateful to the honourable member and said if the MP was to continue doing this he would go unopposed in the forthcoming election. Yet, another patient, simply identified as Joy, said the MP had brought what had never been in the constituency just within a short period in office. Other patients were thankful to the lawmaker for his goodwill and gesture towards them and prayed for him also. When asked what motivated him to do the thank-you tour at health care centres, Ngaji said he was directed by God. Asked if this was politically motivated, the representative said no, adding that “this is what I do every time.” Speaking on some bad roads in his constituency, Ngaji said that once the National Assembly recess was over, he would bring the issue up on the floor of the House of Representatives. Among his entourage were members of the APC, such as the Chairman of Yala Local Government Council Fabian Ogbeche, Hippolatus Lukpata, Ambassador Asegem Emmanuel, the Emeritus Bishop of the Lutheran Church, Bishop Mathew Okata, among others. Ngaji was Deputy Chief of Staff, Chief of Staff, and State Security Adviser to the government of Cross River State. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com