Governor Bello Matawale of Zamfara State and his predecessor, Abdul’aziz Yari, have finally reconciled, after several months of interparty squabble. The two warring leaders on Monday reported to the National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress, Abdulahi Adamu, and other members of the National Working Committee that they have reconciled their political differences. Before now, the state chapter of the APC had been embroiled in a protracted political crisis. In a statement made available to newsmen in Gusau by the state’s APC Assistant Publicity Secretary Junaidu Dosara, the national chairman of the party witnessed the signing of agreement between Matawale and Yari who agreed to work together for the progress of the state and the party. Commenting at the occasion, the national chairman was quoted as saying that, “Matawale and Yari have agreed to work together for the success of our great party. “We have informed the President of the progress that we are making and I am grateful to the Almighty God that we have been able to reach an accord between the former governor, current governor and their esteemed followers. “We have every reason to thank God and believe that the 2023 general election in Zamfara State is a given for the APC. “My advice is that we should be careful not to go back to where we are coming from. We must learn to respect one another, respect the views of our party followers who are our greatest assets”. Matawale was also quoted as saying that, “We thank Mr. President for intervening in the Zamfara crisis and the Governor of Kebbi State who everyday asks me, ‘please go and reconcile with your brother.’ “For the record, Abdul’aziz doesn’t have a second person like me in Zamfara State, he is my friend. “We thank God that today we are together and I know many people will not believe. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com