Governor of River State and presidential aspirant of the Peoples Democratic Party, Nyesom Wike, has appealed for the support of the Ogun State chapter of the party to realise his ambition. He met the Ogun PDP delegates at the party’s Secretariat in Abeokuta. The Rivers governor was accompanied by his counterparts in Oyo State, Seyi Makinde, and former governors of Gombe, Ekiti and Cross Rivers states, Ibrahim Dankwanbo, Ayodele Fayose and Donald Duke, respectively. While canvassing votes from the delegates, Wike described himself as the committee party leader that had never left the party for once since he joined. He urged the delegates to reward his commitment with their votes and appealed to them to punish other aspirants who he said caused the downfall of the party in 2015. He said, “Who is that aspirant since 1998 that I entered this party that has never abandoned this party? It is Wike. I am a PDP committed person. Let me tell you, nothing will make me leave the PDP, whether I win or not. Because everything I have today, it is PDP that gave it to me. So, I owe PDP a lot.” Speaking on why he must be elected by Nigerians to succeed Bubari, Wike said, “Nigeria today requires a strong, courageous and fearless person who will do all those things people are afraid to do. I will do it. “Nigeria has never been as divided as it is today. See where we are today. It has got to that level that a government can no longer protect lives and property. It has got to that level where government is saying people should take up arms. “Insecurity does not know North or South. Poverty does not know Muslim or Christian. Nigeria needs a leader who can put up the best of team up on how to manage this country. I have the ability and the capacity to supervise, coordinate and make sure the job is done. And if the job is not done, I don’t have business with you but to get you fired. I will end insecurity problem in six months if you elect me.” Earlier speaking, the chairman of the party in the state, Sikirulahi Ogundele, pledged to ensure that all the delegates of the party in the state vote Wike at the primary. He said the party in the state had resolved to go for Wike to reward him for his roles in the party. Both Makinde and Dankwanbo, who spoke earlier eulogised Wike for his roles in the PDP and urged the delegates to support his ambition during the May 28 and 29 primaries of the party.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com