The screening exercise for the 25 presidential aspirants of the All Progressives Congress earlier scheduled to hold on Monday has been postponed again. This is the second time that the National Working Committee of the party will be shifting the date of the presidential screening after it failed to hold last weekend. The development was confirmed in a statement by APC National Publicity Secretary, Felix Morka, on Sunday night. The statement said, “A new date for the exercise will be announced shortly. Any inconvenience caused is deeply regretted.” The list of the aspirants who have so far submitted their nomination forms are the National Leader of the party, Senator Bola Tinubu; Vice President Yemi Osibanjo; former Minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi; former Minister of Niger Delta Development, Sen. Godswill Akpabio; former Minister of Science, Technology and Innovation, Dr Ogbonnaya Onu; former Imo State governor, Sen. Rochas Okorocha and former Ogun state governor, Sen. Ibikunle Amosu. Others are Pastor Tunde Bakare, Cross River State governor, Prof. Ben Ayade; his Ebonyi State counterpart, Gov. Dave Umahi; Ekiti State Governor, Dr. Kayode Fayemi; Minister of State for Education, Emeka Nwajiuba; former Senate President, Sen. Ken Nnamani; Kogi State governor, Yahaya Bello; Jigawa Governor, Mohammed Badaru Abubakar and former Zamfara State governor, Sen. Ahmed Yerima. Others on the list are Senator Ajayi Borroffice, the only female aspirant, Mrs Uju Kennedy Ohnenye; Pastor Nicholas Felix Nwagbo, former Speaker of Representative, Dimeji Bankole; Senate President, Dr Ahmed Lawan, former Minister of Information, Chief Ikeobasi Mokelu and oil mogul, Mr Tein Jack Rich. The APC had so far set up 17 panels that screened 1,693 aspirants comprising 145 governorship, 351 senatorial and 1,197 aspirants on May 14 and 15 ahead of the party primary. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com