The Lagos State Police Command has arraigned four teachers of Chrisland Schools, Lagos State, for allegedly covering up sexual acts involving some pupils of the school. The teachers were arraigned on Tuesday before a Yaba Chief Magistrates’ Court on two counts of conduct likely to cause breach of public peace and attempt to pervert justice. The charges read, “That you, Oladotun Sotunde, Elesho Tajudeen, Rhoda Olanipekun, Ajiboye Hammed, on or before April 25, 2022, at Chrisland Schools, Victoria Garden City, Idimu, Lagos, in the Lagos Magisterial District, did conspire among yourselves to commit felony, to wit: conduct likely to cause breach of the peace and indecent practices among your school pupils during their participation in the World School Games, thereby committing an offence punishable under Section 411 of the Criminal Law of Lagos State, 2015. “That you, Oladotun Sotunde, Elesho Tajudeen, Rhoda Olanipekun, Ajiboye Hammed, on or before April 25, 2022, at Chrisland Schools, Victoria Garden City, Idimu, Lagos, in the Lagos State Magisterial District, having returned from the World School Games, involving your students, did intentionally obstruct, prevent, pervert or defeat the course of justice by concealing the indecent acts of your school girl sex video among the students before it went viral, thereby committing an offence punishable under the Section 97 (1) (3) of the Criminal Law of Lagos State, 2015.” The defendants pleaded not guilty to the two charges. The defence team, led by Ademola Animashaun, asked for bail in liberal terms. Ruling on the application, the Chief Magistrate, Adeola Olatunbosun, admitted the defendants to bail in the sum of N300,000 each, with three sureties in like sum. The case was adjourned till June 16, 2022. PUNCH Metro had reported that the sexual acts which were filmed, occurred during a competition in Dubai, United Arab Emirates. The mother of the female pupil, in a video that went viral on social media, accused the school management of concealing the act. She also accused the school of conducting a pregnancy test on her child without permission. The allegations were denied by the school. The Lagos State Government and the police later commenced investigation into the case. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com