Delegates of the Chanchaga Federal Constituency primary election in the All Progressive Congress, Niger State, have accused the party executives of changing the delegates’ list to favour a candidate. According to the delegates who spoke under the auspices of Unity Mega Group, the party executives worked to favour a son of a former military president. One of the delegates, Abdulkadir Zubairu, who spoke in Minna, on Saturday, at a press briefing, stated that the party had produced more than ten doctored lists in less than one week for the Chanchaga constituency seat at the House of Representatives, adding that all the changes were done to favour an unpopular aspirant. Zubairu added that delegates waited from the morning of Friday till 4:00am on Saturday, yet no election was held, neither were they told why the election was not holding. Also speaking, another delegate of Makera Ward, Saidu Magaji, said the primary election was scheduled for Friday but no election was held despite that delegates were at the venue for the election. He added that one of the aspirants was being favoured by the executives of the party. He noted that, while delegates waited to be accredited, buses came to carry delegates uphill the residence of the favoured aspirant where promises were made to them. “Those who thought money is everything have called the delegates to uphill Minna to give each delegate N2 million and keke Napep,” he said. The delegates, therefore, called on the National chairman of the APC to intervene and ensure that there was no imposition of candidate in the constituency. “It is not appropriate that 90 per cent of the Chanchaga federal constituency don’t want the person they want to force on us. He is an elite and we don’t want them anymore. We want someone who has the interest of the masses at heart.” Bashar Umar, also speaking, asked if the party goes ahead to impose a candidate on them will the candidate be able to win the general election. He said what the party needs is a popular candidate who can win at the general poll next year. The primary election was rescheduled for Saturday. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com