The Lagos State Agency for Mass Education has advised students who are affected by the university workers strike to acquire skills at its various vocational training centres in the state. The agency has embarked on its  year 2022 Vocational Sensitisation and Mobilisation  Campaign in various markets and communities across the state, including Ikorodu, Odogunya, Agbowa, Agege market, Ile-Epo market, Iyana-Ipaja to mention a few. Some of the available trades are fashion design, hairdressing, catering, music, make-over and gele tying, event planning and decoration,  to mention afew. Speaking during a sensitisation exercise at the Ladega Market, Ikorodu, Assistant Director of Education, AME, Eturenren Vocational Centre, Ikorodu,  Mrs Olayide Oladunjoye, explained that the choice of the market place was to get parents whose children were idle at home due to ASUU strike to come learn a vocational skill. “We are carrying out sensitisation at Ikorodu for the Eturenren centre. We want them to be aware of our vocational services we want them to know that the Lagos State Government is available to provide free training for anyone. It is one of the THEMES agenda of the governor.  We are impacting on the lives of the people of the state through our vocational training.’’ “Admission is free, no tuition fee too. Entry requirement is the ability to read and write, and we have adult literacy where people can learn how to read and write and move to vocational training.’’ She emphasised that entrepreneurship was the best choice anyone could take. Also, during Vocational Sensitisation and Mobilisation  Campaign at Ile-Epo market on Thursday, the Coordinator, Agege Vocational Training Centre, Mrs Ayo Salu, said, ‘‘Learning a skill is now very important in today’s world. Entrepreneurship will feed you when there are no white-collar jobs. Lagos state government has provided the Agency for Mass Education for every one of us in this vicinity to come and learn a skill. It is free and you only need to come three days a week. Our children that are at home doing nothing can also come and learn any skill for free,’’ she said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com