“When the well is dry, we know the worth of water” – Benjamin Franklin Considering that Nigeria was not able to achieve the Millennium Development Goals because of her sole reliance on budgetary allocation from the three tiers of government, it is heart-warming that critical stakeholders in the water sector are now strategising on how to utilise non-governmental resources to tackle the current Sustainable Development Goals. Yesterday in Abuja, the Society for Water and Sanitation, an indigenous NGO, with the support of Sanitation and Water for All, concluded a two-day multi-stakeholder dialogue on using Water, Sanitation and Hygiene to engage the “triple crises” of climate, health and economic Recovery. One may be tempted to ask what WASH has got to do with climate change, health and economic development. One of the answers could be found in the fact that the only effective and non-pharmaceutical COVID-19 intervention apart from social distancing is hand washing. Notably, we are lucky in Nigeria, and indeed Africa, that this remedy was discovered at about the time the pandemic arrived in Nigeria, taking a cue from similar practice when the Ebola viral disease was similarly brought into Nigeria during its outbreak in 2014. Studies have shown that sustainable access to safe water, improved sanitation and hygiene contributes to improvements in public health, nutrition, girls’ education, and poverty reduction and contributes to improvements in food production and income generation while providing jobs for the citizens. However, climate change has a tremendous impact on access to water. Indeed, it is the major outstanding challenge, which presently faces the WASH sector and which threatens sustainable water and sanitation service delivery. Some of the threats include damage to WASH facilities during flooding, loss of water sources due to decreasing rainfall and increasing demand for water and poor distribution of water, as well as changes in the quality of water sources. It is germane to pinpoint some impacts of climate change on water resources. Rising sea levels impact the environment through seawater intrusion with specific victims being islands and coastlines, particularly coastal towns and cities. Variability of seasonal rainfall patterns impacts the environment through low levels of surface water and groundwater at the end of the dry season and is mostly witnessed in regions in the tropics that rely on successive dry and rainy seasons and areas with low rainfall. A rise in average temperatures impacts the environment through a reduction in the quantity and quality of surface water and groundwater, both seasonally (large-scale fluctuations) and inter-annually (continued fall in aquifer piezometric levels) witnessed in areas with low rainfall, arid areas and hot areas, as well as densely populated urban areas. Heatwaves impact the environment through reduced river flows, particularly in low-water periods, also witnessed in areas with low rainfall, arid areas and hot areas, and also in densely populated urban areas. Droughts impact the environment through higher concentrations of various (chemical and organic) pollutants in the water due to poor dilution, decreased groundwater recharge, increased salinity and other aquatic disruptions; also witnessed in areas with low rainfall, arid areas, hot areas and densely populated urban areas. At the Abuja dialogue, the National Coordinator of NEWSAN, Attah Benson, recommended that climate resilience measures should be integrated into water, sanitation and hygiene in order to reduce climate risk, while also calling on the Nigerian government to consider the need to revisit the National Climate Adaptation Plan and the country’s Nationally Determined Contribution to ensure that WASH issues are properly and carefully considered and included in these vital national documents. After the group work sessions that reviewed Nigeria’s Nationally Determined Contributions, the forum mapped out the intersection of WASH and climate action in the national interest with particular attention to stakeholders, climate and WASH policy; climate risks to WASH; potential climate-resilient WASH solutions, and financing for climate-resilient WASH responses. The questions for review were: What has our country done to respond to climate change from a WASH perspective? What are the gaps in the response? Have country hazards, exposure, vulnerabilities and capacities to respond been assessed in the WASH sector? Have climate risk assessments been done with a focus on the WASH sector, or if risk assessments have been done more broadly, has the WASH sector integrated that information in its policies and planning? Are the main needs for WASH adaptation in the country clear? Are the main WASH mitigation opportunities clear? Meanwhile, it is instructive to gauge and interrogate the impact of the interventions of the Federal Ministry of Water Resources over the years. During the onset of the COVID-19 global emergency, the ministry had set up a National WASH Emergency Response Committee to help provide the needed support to states and ensure that water, sanitation and hygiene services were being prioritised across the country, as the first defence line against the pandemic. In November 2019, it launched a national campaign to end open defecation in the country by 2025, tagged “Clean Nigeria: Use the Toilet” Campaign (Clean Nigeria Campaign for short). The campaign was informed by Nigeria’s unfortunate position on the global ladder of counties with the highest number of persons practising open defecation estimated at 46 million persons. It was aimed at mobilising high-level political support, resources and the entire populace toward building a new culture of safe sanitation. Interestingly, the national launch of the campaign in 2019 was immediately followed by the signing of Executive Order 009 “Ending Open Defecation in Nigeria and other related matters.” To date, the Clean Nigeria Campaign has recorded 78 local government areas as Open Defecation Free. However, with the deadline of 2025 – the open defecation free target date for Nigeria – one wonders if there is still hope of moving the remaining 696 LGAs to Open Defecation Free status and also sustaining the 78 LGAs as ODF. Furthermore, although the Federal Government has shown some ambition in improving WASH, there need to be more efforts deployed in bringing in the private sector to play its part as a critical stakeholder. It is only with the private sector involvement that such emerging initiatives as Circular Economy could be practically imprinted in the national consciousness. Truth be told, the opportunities in the WASH sector have become even more pronounced with the concept of circularity; therefore, the private sector is needed to reinvent the sanitation value chain and create a circular economy across these networks in order to boost the country’s economic indices while igniting positive impacts across other sectors. Does WASH matter? Yes, it is critical to our survival at every level. Access to water, sanitation and hygiene immensely helps to reduce poverty, health care costs and vulnerability of the poor and marginalised groups; at the same time contributing to economic development and productivity, while promoting gender equality. Access to WASH also reduces vulnerability to climate change, lessens the human impact on the environment, enhances food security, improves productivity and effectively promotes and contributes to the green and circular economies. In statistical terms, it helps the world to actualise some key goals in the current Sustainable Development Goals of the United Nations, especially Goals 1, 2, 6,7, 13, 14, and 15. The other interesting aspect of NEWSAN’s stakeholder dialogue is in calling attention to the human rights dimension of water and sanitation, thereby putting a human face to a problem that might otherwise seem distant to the ordinary citizen. It is also in identifying overall opportunities at the national level that the WASH sector can leverage to thrive; and then in putting forward recommendations based on formulations and revisions of WASH policies, strategies and plans. Certainly, this is a practical entry point to ensure that climate resilience is well integrated in the nation’s water sector.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com