No fewer than four commissioners in the Ebonyi State Executive Council have resigned to pursue their various political ambitions in the 2023 general elections. The Commissioner for Information in the state, Uchenna Orji, stated this, on Friday, in Abakaliki while briefing journalists on the outcome of the Council’s weekly meeting. According to him, the Council received a report on such members’ resignations in pursuit of their political aspirations and, therefore, accepted the resignations. He said, “The concerned members include Chief Onyekachi Nwebonyi, former Commissioner for Capital City and Urban Development and Chief Emma Uguru, former Commissioner for Lands and Survey. “Eze Nwachukwu, former Commissioner for Inter-Party Affairs and Ukie Ezeali, former Commissioner for Business Development also resigned.” Orji further announced that the governor signed an Executive Order on indiscriminate pasting of papers, posters and erection of billboards across the state. “The Executive Council noted that the order was welcome to enhance the state’s status of having one of the cleanest capitals in the country,” he added. He further announced that the Council noted the report on the state government’s seventh anniversary and approved the sum of N600m for the programme. “The programme will last for one week from the first week of June as a committee headed by the state Deputy Governor, Dr Kelechi Igwe and co-chaired by Chief Austin Umahi, was formed concerning it,” he said. He noted that the Council decided to recall the suspended management of the state College of Education, Ikwo and directed that they be on trial for three months. “They risk being sacked if found wanting as the recall, however, does not apply to the staff illegally recruited into the college.” The Commissioer for Health, Dr Daniel Umezurike, said the government had approved free laboratory services to the people from June 1, 2022. “This service will last for two months and will be rendered at the King David University of Medical Sciences, Uburu. The cost of the service will be borne by the state government,” Umezurike said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com