Super Eagles coach, Jose Peseiro, has been urged to keep his promise of fielding players from the Nigerian Professional Football League in the senior national team in subsequent games, PUNCH Sports Extra reports. Peseiro called up eight players from the NPFL for the friendlies against Mexico and Ecuador and in his first game and the Portuguese coach paraded four of the in his team’s 2-1 defeat to Mexico at the iconic AT&T Stadium in Dallas. The quartet of Ishaq Rafiu, Sani Faisal, Victor Mbaoma and Chiamaka Madu were introduced at half time – decision which delighted fans of the three-time African champions. Reacting to Peseiro’s tweet on after the game where he applauded the four players who made their debut saying ‘A special mention to the four NPFL players who had the chance to debut with the national team’. Adeoye Micheal wrote on Facebook, “Jose Peseiro you are giving us this good vibes. Keep up the work. You did get there soon. More delighted at the NPFL players you paraded and impressed on your first game. Keep faith with the good ones like you promised. Lawal Kolawole also said, “The news of fielding four players against Mexico was delightful to me. With this move I believe the Eagles will do better under you. Just encourage these NPFL lads. We are solemnly counting on you to deliver to Nigerians. Another Facebook user, Adah Leo also believes that Peseiro has started on the right path with the gradual inclusion of the NPFL players. “Just like former coaches Clemence Westerhof, Stephen Keshi and Sunday Oliseh, Peseiro is on the right path giving a chance to the NPFL players in the main team. I pray he picks the best to make the team more formidable. He will succeed.” The Eagles are to face Ecuador at the Red Bull Arena in Harrison on Thursday in New Jersey. The two matches have been designed as physical, mental and psychological reawakening for the Eagles ahead of next month’s 2023 Africa Cup of Nations qualifying duels with Sierra Leone and Mauritius in Abuja and St. Pierre respectively. Nigeria host Sierra Leone at the MKO Abiola National Stadium, Abuja on Thursday, June 9 as from 5pm, before flying to St. Pierre for their encounter with the Les Dodos at the Cote D’Or National Sports Complex, St. Pierre on Monday,June 13.  Contact: theeditor@punchng.com Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com