As part of its commitment to helping brand managers, policymakers, and culture enthusiasts understand prevailing trends with a view to making informed decisions, Culture Intelligence from RED has released the Nigeria Market Sentiments and the Study Motivations Report 2022. The research, which was conducted by the brand and market intelligence unit of RED | For Africa at the instance of the University of Sussex, examined issues surrounding Nigerians studying abroad — especially in the United Kingdom — in the years following the COVID-19 global pandemic. The study reflected market trends, general conceptions, and preferences in the Nigerian tertiary education sector as it related to acquiring foreign degrees — especially qualifications from UK universities. The study, which polled over 4,000 teens, young adults, and adults from the six geo-political zones of Nigeria with active interests in studying beyond the shores of Nigeria, had an overwhelming majority of respondents (89.87 percent) express their interest to study abroad, with a large percentage (65.52 percent) noting that they were looking to get undergraduate degrees abroad. About 34.48 percent said they were open to pursuing postgraduate qualifications. The study’s sample size was made up of prospective undergraduates, new graduates, early career professionals and Master’s degree candidates. With a focus on the profile of the average Nigerian seeking foreign academic qualifications abroad, the study revealed that science, engineering, technology, and mathematics were amongst some of the most popular course options for international education in both the undergraduate and postgraduate categories with arts (Fine and Applied), social sciences and other related courses remaining a growing sector. Speaking, the Chief Intelligence Officer at RED | For Africa, Isime Esene said, “The UK/Nigeria study motivations report is the first indigenous report that looks deeply into the issues that influence people’s choices regarding the institution they intend to study. “We hope that the study not only contributes to contemporary discourse as it relates to both countries but ultimately serves as a valuable resource for all stakeholders with interest in the development of the Nigerian education sector.” The study revealed that the most preferred destinations for Nigerian students were the United Kingdom (32.71 percent), Canada (16.67 percent), the United States (16.54 percent), Germany (10.6 percent), and Australia (7.96 percent). Senior International Officer (Africa & The Middle East), University of Sussex, Tosin Adebisi, noted that the study was aimed at providing stakeholders on both sides of the spectrum — prospective students and international institutions — a treasure-trove of useful data and insights that were crucial to decision making. Adebisi said, “The study’s outcomes point to many well-known, as well as uncommon trends in the way people seek international education. We are delighted to have facilitated this study in partnership with Culture Intelligence from RED and other stakeholders, and we believe it would further underscore our commitment to Africa, especially Nigeria which boasts of a considerable number of University of Sussex alumni.” The Chair of the British Universities’ International Liaison Association (BUILA), Bobby Mehta, added that the report brought to fore the key factors informing students’ choices to study in the UK. “The report presents us an opportunity to respond effectively to the changing dynamics we are witnessing in the international education sector, particularly as it relates to Africa in the post-COVID era. It validates our efforts towards developing increased synergy with relevant stakeholders with a view to making the UK the leading study destination across the world.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com