The Trade Union Congress has said the Labour Party has been taken back from politicians who hitherto, hijacked it from the union. The TUC added that it had established a political commission in the 36 states of the federation, including the Federal Capital Territory, to ensure that members participate in the 2023 polls. Earlier in the year, the TUC established the National Political Commission to actualise the political participation of members in the 2023 general elections. Speaking to our correspondent on Tuesday, the chairman of the commission, Dr Ayo Olorunfemi, stated that both the TUC and Nigeria Labour Congress are now in charge of the party, adding that measures had been put in place to ensure that the party would not be hijacked again. He said the party would be fielding candidates for the various positions in the 2023 elections, assuring that it was working to meet the deadline set by the Independent National Electoral Commission. Olurunfemi stated, “We have established the commission in the 36 states of the federation, giving them instructions to go to all the local governments and the ward level to mobilise our members to participate in the 2023 elections. We have finally adopted the Labour Party, both the NLC and TUC. “We are the owners of the party and we have reclaimed our party fully, and any candidate that wants to run now must have been endorsed by us. “We are not unaware that politicians may want to use the platform, we will guard against that this time around. We have our own policy document and whoever wants to run under our platform must be ready to abide by that. “For the presidential ticket, one person has indicated interest and we will definitely have more. Don’t worry about the deadline set by INEC; we are going to meet up. Activities will pick up in the party very soon. “Both the TUC and NLC are back in labour, if you see anybody who is not a labour person in the party, they are not up to 10 per cent.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com