Chairmen of the Peoples Democratic Party in the riverine communities of the Burutu Local Government Area of Delta State besieged Genesis Hotel in Obotobo, a major oil producing community in Ogulagha Kingdom, Burutu LGA, on Tuesday, resolving to collaborate among themselves to produce credible leaders to represent the communities in various elective offices, come 2023. They were hosted by the Ward 11 Chairman of the Burutu Local Government Area, Comr. Moses Agbobulagha, who disclosed that his hosting the parley was aimed at further cementing the bond of unity among them as ward chairmen. He canvassed the existing love and unity among them “to continue until even after the general election.” Our correspondent gathered that 10 out of the 11 ward chairmen across the Burutu Local Government Area were in attendance and were well received by Chiefs in Obotobo 1 & 11, community leaderships in Sokebolou, Yokiri during the get-together. Addressing them, Agbobulagha appreciated his fellow ward chairmen for honouring the parley, noting that with unity among them, there was nothing they could not achieve. While canvassing sustained unity among the forum, he emphasised the need for them to speak in one voice even as they go about the PDP primaries by ensuring that credible leaders were voted to represent the party in the 2023 general election. The ward 11 PDP chairman suggested that hosting of the forum’s meeting be rotated among willing ward chairmen, if so agreed, with a view to further galvanising the bond of unity among them. Also addressing the forum, the chairmen of Sokebolou and Yokiri communities in Ogulagha Kingdom, Engr. Moses Ibilou and Comr. Churchill Dose, appreciated the conference of the Burutu Local Government PDP Ward Chairmen for the joint get-together which they described as historic in the locality. The duo of Churchill and Ibilou then appealed to the ward chairmen to support Hon. Julius Pondi, presently representing the Burutu Federal Constituency in the House of Representatives, in his bid to return to the green chamber of the National Assembly come 2023. They claimed that a vote for Pondi during the party primaries and the general election would mean a vote for continued progress in the Burutu Local Government Area of Delta State. High point of the ceremony was the unity dance by the PDP ward chairmen that turned out for the conference. The ward chairmen that attended the meeting included Mr. Blessing Ezonfade, ward 4, Mr. Akpodikumo O. Okosuye, ward 8, Mr. Funebi Agai, ward 9, Hon (Chief) Akpoerebo Clarke, ward 10, Comr. Moses Agbobulagha, ward 11 (the host), Mr. Kebbi Oyakemeagbegha, ward 1, Mr. Ambrose Oseseama, ward 2, Mr. Defence Ebi, ward 3, Hon. Tito Young ward 5, Mr. Oduma Tamaramieye, ward 6, except the ward 7 chairman who was unavoidably absent. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com