The Delta State Police Command has killed 10 suspected kidnappers and armed robbers in a fierce gun battle around Kwale axis in the Ndokwa West Local Government Area of the state The state Police Public Relations Officer, DSP Bright Edafe, disclosed this in a statement on Sunday He said, “Following killings, arsons, kidnapping, armed robbery, attacks on innocent civilians and policemen on duty and their rifles being taken away, the command never relented in its efforts towards arresting and ensuring that the hoodlums are brought to book. “Consequently, the command went on an intelligence-led investigation and on Saturday, May 21, 2022, around 5am, the Commissioner of Police, Delta State, detailed a combined team comprising the State Anti-Kidnapping/Cybercrime Squad, Dragon patrol teams, RRS operatives, and anti-cult volunteers from Agbor, Ekwoma, Igbodo, Ibusa, Abavo, Kwale, respectively. “The combined teams embarked on a sting operation and stormed the hideout of these dare-devil kidnappers/armed robbers around the Kwale axis. The hoodlums, who were armed with AK-47 rifles and charms, on sighting the police, shot sporadically at them and the team equally engaged them in a fierce gun battle. Edafe said due to the superior firepower of the police, 10 of the suspected kidnappers/armed robbers were neutralised, while others escaped with gunshot injuries. He said five AK-47 rifles, six magazines and 117 rounds of 7.62mm ammunition were recovered from the hoodlums. While assuring residents that the command would continue to sustain the tempo, the PPRO urged members of the public, vigilantes, anti-cult volunteers and other non-state actors to continue to partner the police, with a view to ensuring that Delta State was not a safe haven for criminals.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com