The Vice-Chancellor, Afe Babalola University, Ado Ekiti, Prof. Smaranda Olarinde, on Sunday attributed the ranking of the 12-years-old university as the best in Nigeria and among the best 400 in the world by Times Higher Education Impact Rankings on the school’s institutionalised qualitative and functional education. Expressing joy on the news, he said, “People and organisations outside Nigeria are following ABUAD’s achievements with keen interest since it commenced academic works on January 4, 2010. “It has institutionalised qualitative and functional education and raised a new generation of Nigerians and ensured that Nigeria regains its lost glory in education”. The VC, according to a statement by the Director of Corporate Affairs, Tunde Olofintila, titled, ‘ABUAD ranked the best university in Nigeria, one of the best 400 in the world’, lauded the cooperation of stakeholders and the teeming ABUAD students for the feats being recorded by the institution. Olofintila stated, “The cheering news was published on the website of The Times Higher Education World University Rankings. “The new global ranking for ABUAD is coming 10 months after the Alper-Doger Scientific Index ranked the same university as the ‘Best Research University’ among the 99 private universities in Nigeria and number 10 out of 197 public and private universities in Nigeria in July 2022”. Olofintila, who said the Times Higher Education World University Rankings 2022, looked at performance across four key areas of teaching, research, knowledge transfer, and international outlook, added, “This year’s ranking included more than 1,600 universities across 99 countries and territories, making them the largest and most diverse university rankings to date. “The 2022 ranking analysed more than 108 million citations across over 14.4 million research publications and included survey responses from almost 22,000 scholars globally. Overall, we collected over 430,000 data points from more than 2,100 institutions that submitted data,” he stated. He added, “A letter dated April 27, 2022, and titled ‘2022: The Impact Rankings’ by the former Nigerian Universities Commission Executive Secretary, Prof. Peter Okebukola, to VCs of Nigerian universities, stated that the ‘2022 Times Higher Education Impact Rankings (measured against the SDGs) were released today. In Nigeria, the top three universities (in Nigeria) are 1st – Afe Babalola University; 2nd – Covenant University; and 3rd – University of Ibadan.'” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com