Smooth Productions, organisers of popular Nigerian music awards, The Headies, have condemned controversial artiste, Portable, for threatening the lives of fellow nominees. The fast-rising artiste is contending for the Best Street-Hop Artiste and Rookie of the year awards according to the nomination list released by the Headies on Tuesday. Born Habeeb Okikiola, the singer took to his Instagram page on Wednesday where he made death threats to other artistes featured in the categories he was nominated in. “Those are my awards, anybody else who wins I will ask for them to be killed. I will ask them to kill the person. If the organisers give my award to someone else, they will die,” he said in Yoruba. “No go give my award to another person, he go die o” In a statement published via Headies’ official Instagram account on Friday, it was revealed that Smooth Productions made a report to the police as regards the concerning video. The singer was also warned to retract his statement and make a written apology to his colleagues. The statement read in part, “The Headies condemns such act and is vehemently opposed to the utterance of any threats or actions that contravene our laws. We have notified the Nigerian Police Force of Okikiola’s actions to fellow nominees of the awards. “Also, demand that the immediate retraction of the video from Mr. Okikiola’s social media platforms, as well as a written apology to the nominees of both categories and to the Headies, must be made. “Should Mr. Okikiola fail to meet our demands, we would not only disqualify him from participating in the Headies but also enforce the instrumentalities of the law to the fullest.” The organisers also implored the general public to disregard the video and stop sharing the same on social media platforms. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com