The National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress, Senator Abdullahi Adamu, again met with former President Goodluck Jonathan ahead of the presidential primary of the APC billed for Sunday, The PUNCH has learnt. The meeting, it was learnt, preceded a discussion between Jonathan and Mamman Daura, the influential nephew of the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.). The meeting between Jonathan and Adamu, it was learnt, took place at Jonathan’s Abuja home last week and lasted for about four hours. An APC chieftain told The PUNCH that discussions were still ongoing and that the party was open to allowing Jonathan to contest. “The photo of Mamman Daura and Jonathan was taken in Jonathan’s house. It was actually Mammand Daura that went to visit Jonathan. Also, the national chairman visited Jonathan twice last week. He met Jonathan late in the evening and they spoke till about 1am. The visit was for about four hours. “Discussions are still ongoing and that is why the APC is willing to allow Jonathan to face the screening even though he didn’t submit his form ahead of the deadline,” he said. The PUNCH had reported that Jonathan would only join the presidential race if he receives the assurance that he will be endorsed by the President and picked as the consensus candidate. “Jonathan is a newcomer in the APC. He has no delegates of his own. You don’t expect him to be contesting openly against Bola Tinubu, Yemi Osinbajo and others. He will be setting himself up for defeat if he does that,” said another APC chieftain. Attempts to get a response from Adamu proved abortive as he neither responded to calls nor a text message on Wednesday. Jonathan’s spokesman, Ikechukwu Eze, also did not respond to calls. The PUNCH reports that the National Secretary of the APC, Suleman Argungu, had said that Jonathan and others who had failed to submit their presidential forms would still be allowed to face the screening. The national chairman had also insisted on Wednesday that the number of aspirants remained 28. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com