The national president of the Academic Staff Union of Polytechnics, Anderson Ezeibe, on Wednesday, told The PUNCH that his union was being “considerate by declaring just two weeks strike.” “Our ultimatum actually expired on April 4, 2022. Since then, we have been very patient with the government. We shunned the May 9 meeting with the government because we were told the meeting would be with other unions. We did not declare three months, we only declared two weeks and that is because we are being considerate,” Ezeibe said. The PUNCH reported that ASUP, in a statement released on Wednesday, stated that it took the decision to embark on strike after an emergency National Executive Council meeting held on Wednesday. ASUP suspended its industrial action declared on the 6th of April 2021 on the 10th of June, 2021 following the signing of a Memorandum of Action with the government. The signed MoA contained a clear path to a sustainable resolution of the issues in dispute with timelines attached to each of the items in dispute. Part of the demand includes the non-release of the approved revitalisation fund for the sector, approved N15bn, yet to be released 11 months after approval by the President. “Non-release of arrears of the new minimum wage: The owed 10 months arrears for the Polytechnics is yet to be released. The composite amount covering all Federal Tertiary Institutions to the approximate figure of N19bn currently exists as an AIE in the Accountant General’s Office.” “We are deploying this medium to equally appeal to members of the public to prevail on the government to do the needful within the two weeks period so as to avoid an indefinite shutdown of the sector.” the union threatened in its statement. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com