Few hours to the presidential election of the ruling All Progressives Congress, a group of women who are supporters of one of the presidential aspirants, Bola Tinubu, has appealed to the National Chairman of the party, Abdullahi Adamu, to ensure transparency and allow party delegates to choose a candidate of their choice at the forthcoming primary without any form of intimidation. The group, under the aegis of Ondo State Women for Tinubu, also called on all APC delegates to ensure they elect the person of their choice as the presidential candidate of the party without any harassment. The leader of the group, Mrs Bola Ige, in a statement issued on Friday, said although there was provision for a consensus candidate in the constitution, it should be a true consensus whereby all the aspirants would sign a written document to show they all agree to it. According to the group, there was a need to ensure transparency and allow party members to choose a candidate of their choice at the primary. The group, while condemning what it termed as an attempt in some quarters to compel the delegates to vote for a particular candidate, urged the party leaders to desist from such act and give all aspirants level playing ground. Ige said, “In the spirit of justice, equity and fair play, our great party should allow all the presidential aspirants to go for the primary. Let the people determine who will be their president. “Plans to force the people to support a purported aspirant will surely bring hatred and disunity in (the) APC and also jeopardise the chances of the party in the general election.” She also warned against a selection process that would amount to imposition or any semblance of it, describing such act as a deliberate plan to cause disaffection, crisis and disunity in the party and Nigeria in general. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com