THE match-day 26 of the Nigeria Professional Football League clash between hosts Kwara United and Rivers United in Ilorin was marred by off-the-pitch incidents after both sides engaged in counter-accusations following allegations by the visitors that they were attacked by fans of the hosts, The PUNCH reports. The thrilling encounter at the Kwara State Stadium on Sunday ended 2-1 in favour of the home side. Nelson Okwa gave league leaders Rivers an early lead just two minutes into the game, before Samad Kadiri and Jide Fatokun scored in the 57th and 75th minutes respectively to ensure the hosts claimed the maximum three points. After the game, videos emerged showing policemen ordering Rivers assistant coach Fatai Osho, who was allegedly attacked by the home fans, into their team bus. But more footage countered the alleged attack, showing that no player or staff of the visiting team was attacked. Speaking with The PUNCH, media officer of Rivers United, Mayuku Charles, said, “We were not only held hostage but we were also attacked. “Did you see the video of where the referee was attacked, or where our officials were attacked on the pitch, even our coach (Fatai) Osho was also attacked? “Even when the police and the security personnel told us to come out, that the fans had gone, Osho was attacked. At least nobody was injured, apart from the blows, and I’m sure people took a lot of the pictures. “The LMC has rules and we wouldn’t want to break them. That is why we will use the available channel to get across to the LMC on what happened in Kwara.” When contacted by The PUNCH, media officer of Kwara United, Jimoh Bashir, said the attack on Osho happened outside the stadium and had nothing to do with fans of the Ilorin-based club. “Rivers United are only telling lies and Kwara United as a club is not interested in all these lies,” he said. “They were responsible for everything that happened and they were the first to start posting on the social media. “Osho’s attack was a different issue entirely because it was between the coach and a man who had a score to settle with him, and it was after the game and outside the stadium. It had nothing to do with the game, Osho can testify to what I’m saying.” Bashir also denied the claim that the visitors were held hostage. “There was nothing like anyone being held hostages, they left immediately after the game and the only incident was when one of our ball boys was kicked by a Rivers official for time-wasting and the boy fainted. We have the pictures to back this up, but we won’t get so petty with them by telling lies.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com