Minister of Industry,  Trade and Investment,  Otunba Adeniyi  Adebayo, on Thursday, inaugurated a committee to examine and end rejection of Nigeria agro produce in the international market. The committee is headed by the Director,   Commodities and Export Department,  Mr Suleiman Audu, who is charged with the responsibility of identifying the major causes of the rejection of the agro produce and proffering appropriate recommendations. Inaugurating the committee,  the minister, in a statement by his Special  Assistant on Media,  Ifedayo  Sayo,  said the Federal Government placed a lot of emphasis on the promotion of non-oil commodity exports, which had led to farmers and product aggregators partnering to explore the export market for their products. He noted that in recent times, Nigeria agro-products had been suffering from export rejections by most countries of Asia, Europe and America. This, he explained, had led to huge financial losses with its attendant negative impact on the supply value chain and job creation. He stressed that the international market was competitive and welcomed products of high quality with relevant certifications and quality packaging that was environmentally friendly. Adebayo said the problem of quality,  standards,  certification and appropriate packaging for made-in-Nigeria products for export had been a recurring issue, hence the need to set up the technical committee to address the issue and proffer appropriate recommendations. The minister told the committee that the nation was looking forward to the outcome of the assignment given to them as an antidote to the rejection being suffered by Nigerian exporters at the international market. He gave the committee six weeks within which to submit its report. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com