Prominent Ijaw leaders of All Progressives Congress in Ogbe Ijoh, Warri South-West Local Government Area of Delta State have endorsed the governorship ambition of the Deputy President of the Senate, Senator Ovie Omo-Agege. This was contained in a statement signed by the duo of Chief David Omare and Amb. Tekedor Clement, copies of which were made available to journalists in Warri on Monday. They said that “the party’s leadership in the Ward is in support of Omo Agege’s quest to become the next Governor of Delta State and will give him all the necessary support”. The APC leaders noted that the Deputy Senate President has been able to carve a niche for himself politically through many developmental and empowerment projects he has attracted to his senatorial district and other parts of the State while at the National Assembly. They stated that if given the opportunity to govern Delta State, Omo-Agege will bring his wealth of experience to bear in ensuring that Delta State becomes the envy of other states in the country. The Ijaw leaders recalled that only recently, the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), assented to the bill establishing the Federal Polytechnic, Orogun in Delta State sponsored by Omo-Agege. Also, they described Omo-Agege as a detribalized Nigerian, explaining that though not from the Ijaw nation yet he has been appointing Ijaw sons and daughters into positions of leadership, noting that the Ijaw stands to get greater democratic dividends should he emerge Delta Governor. They maintained that Omo-Agege is the only one among all other aspirants that can turn things around and restore the past glory of Delta State after years of alleged misrule. The Ijaw leaders noted that “the unfortunate situation the State finds itself today requires only a man with a dynamic leadership quality like Omo-Agege who is poised to bring good governance to the state”. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com