Progressives Agenda Movement has appealed to the leadership and members of the All Progressives Congress to consider a former governor of Ogun state, Senator Ibikunle Amosun as the flag bearer of the party for the 2023 presidential election. The group which launched the movement said Amosun is the most preferred person to succeed the President, Major-General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.). The Director-General of the movement, Olawale Balogun, said this during a press briefing held in Abeokuta on Tuesday. He expressed readiness to mobilise youths across the country to ensure the emergence of Amosun as the next president of the country. Balogun described Amosun as a healthy and highly cerebral person that would save the country from insecurity and economic challenges facing the country. He said,” This movement is a conglomerate of like minds across the country with a mission to support, campaign and mobilise voters nationwide for our great party (All Progressives Congress) and our preferred candidate ahead of the 2023 election. “Our political movement will serve as a formidable support group for our party and our preferred candidate is no other person than a former governor and current senator, Ogun Central Senatorial District, Sentor Ibikunle Amosun. “We have seen your unquantifiable leadership prowess. Your antecedent and achievement as a two term governor of Ogun State speaks volume and authenticity of the fact that you are the leader Nigeria needs at the moment. “Progressives Agenda Movement is using this opportunity to appeal to the leadership and the entire members of our great party to consider His Excellency Sen. Ibikunle Amosun as the flag bearer of our great party, as we pledge to mobilise massive votes for our party in the coming election”. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com