In commemoration of this year’s Children’s Day, Vice-President Yemi Osinbajo, Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu of Lagos State, his counterparts in Gombe and Kwara states, Inuwa Yahaya and AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq, and the wife of the former Minister of Transportation, Mrs Judith Amaechi, on Friday renewed their commitment to the preservation of the rights of children. Speaking at the presentation of a document on the Situation Analysis of Children in Nigeria in Abuja on Friday, Osinbajo in a statement by his Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity, Laolu Akande, quoted Osinbajo as saying, “I believe we can in this decade permanently end child poverty in Nigeria. The key task is to converge the political, religious, and cultural wills to the resolution of this existential challenge. We must not rest until the future of every child in Nigeria is guaranteed.” Also, Sanwo-Olu, represented by the Secretary to the State Government, Mrs Folashade Jaji, said at an event organised by the state government that the state was continuously embarking on a series of initiatives and intervention programmes to promote the Child Right Protection Law in line with the goal of the Universal Children’s Day to improve child welfare, promote and celebrate children’s rights and promote togetherness and awareness amongst all children. Similarly, Yahaya in a statement by the Director-General, Press Affairs at the Government House, Ismaila Misilli, quoted the governor as saying, “This government will continue to strengthen measures to revamp the education sector in the state by ensuring that out-of-school children and those of school age, especially girls, enjoy basic and sound education, considering their place and importance in the attainment of the SDGs.” In Kwara State, AbdulRazaq, in a statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Rafiu Ajakaye, said the state’s investments in education were visible to all, adding that the state was doing everything possible to support the dreams of the Kwara child to compete with their peers. Amaechi’s wife, who is the founder of the Empowerment Support Initiative, in a statement by her media aide, Dr Dike Bekwele in Port Harcourt, Rivers State, called for the full implementation of the Child Rights Act in line with 2030 SDGs. Also, the Executive Secretary of the Domestic and Sexual Violence Agency in Lagos, Mrs Titilola Vivour-Adeniyi, said the society had a role to play in preserving the purity of children and creating an enabling environment for them. Meanwhile, a child rights advocacy group, Save the Children International, has called on the federal and state governments to implement the Child Rights Act. The Director of Advocacy and Campaigns for Save the Children International, Amanuel Mamo, said it was disturbing that 44 per cent of girls were forced into child marriage before their 18th birthday. He added, “While the domestication of the Child Rights Act is a very critical first step to stopping the war on girls, it should also be backed by financial and human resources for its full implementation to provide a favourable environment in which children can realise and release their full potential.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com