Ahead of the 2023 general elections, the Deputy Senate President, Ovie Omo-Agege has appealed to aggrieved members of the All Progressive Congress for their support. Omo-Agege made the appeal when he visited the National leader of Ukpe Anioma of All Progressive Congress, Chief Alex lkpeazu, at his residence on Tuesday in lka North-East Local Government Area of Delta State. The aspirant assured the aggrieved members of the APC that they would all be carried along as the party moves to unseat the Peoples Democratic Party in the state. He said, “Please forgive me, l did not mean bad. My actions were to strengthen the party and chase away PDP. When we win, our future is bright. “Let us come together as a family. Let’s work together. I promise, everybody will be carried along. I am not seeing any hostile people here. You have done a good groundwork.’’ While assuring that the party had more than enough capacity to win the elections, Omo-Agege appealed to all members of APC that feel offended to forgive him, adding that all his actions were done in the interest of the party, to strengthen it, make it formidable and not necessarily to grab control as some have insinuated. On his part, Chief Ikpeazu lamented that the Delta state problem has always been a leadership problem. He said Omo Agege has been assessed by most vibrant socio-political associations in Delta North Senatorial District, as intelligent, trustworthy and forward looking candidate to take Delta State to its buoyant destination. “We know that with Omo-Agege pedigrees in political administration, we will drive Delta State growth trajectory on faster momentum. With the high level display of humility by the Senator at the meeting, all aggrieved party members have resolved to work for the success of the party as we march towards 2023,” Ikpeazu said. He called for the emergence of a purpose-driven and visionary leadership in Delta State. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com