Former Lagos State governor, Bola Tinubu, will personally submit his presidential nomination and expression of interest forms on Wednesday, The PUNCH has learnt. The presidential aspirant had on April 30 picked the ruling All Progressives Congress’ N100m presidential nomination and expression of interest forms. While the former Lagos governor will personally submit his forms today, the documents were picked on his behalf by his close associates while he was away in Saudi Arabia for a lesser Hajj during Ramadan. Those who picked the forms on his behalf include former Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Babachir Lawal; House of Representatives members representing Ikeja and Agege Federal Constituencies, James Faleke, and Babatunde Adejare respectively. Tinubu’s media aide, Tunde Rahmon, confirmed that the APC National Leader will personally submit his presidential forms in a chat with our correspondent on Wednesday. “Yes, it is true,” Rahmon simply said when asked to confirm the veracity of the reports online that the former Lagos governor will be submitting the forms himself. Rising from a cloosed door meeting with the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), on January 10 in Aso Rock, Tinubu told State House correspondents that he had informed Buhari of his ambition to succeed the President in 2023. He also described his presidential ambition as “life-long” one. “I have informed the President of my intention but I’ve not informed Nigerians yet. I am still consulting and I have no problem consulting and I have not set a parameter of limitation to the extent of how many people will I consult. “You will soon hear all you want to hear; it is a categorical declaration. You’ve gotten that truth from me that I have informed Mr President of my ambition,” the presidential aspirant had told the reporters. Tinubu may be the second aspirant to submit his forms following the Serving Overseer of the Citadel Global Community Church, Nigeria, Pastor Tunde Bakare, who submitted earlier on Wednesday in Abuja. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com