The Nigeria Police Force has denied arresting a broadcaster and Managing Director of Agidigbo 88.7 FM, Oriyomi Hamzat, without a warrant of arrest. The Force Public Relations Officer, Muyiwa Adejobi, in a statement on Thursday, said Hamzat was arrested for refusing to honour police invitation. He said, “The popular Ibadan-based broadcaster, Oriyomi Hamzat, was arrested in Ibadan today (Thursday) by our Force Intelligence Bureau (FIB) operatives in connection with a case of cyberbullying under investigation. “Oriyomi’s arrest was sequel to his refusal to honour police invitation severally, which prompted the police to secure a warrant for his arrest. We are looking into the petition written against him for his violation of the Cyber Crime Act 2015, and necessary action will be taken to do justice in the matter”. PUNCH Metro gathered that the arrest was sequel to a petition by the embattled Chairman of Hilton Hotel and Resort, Rahmon Adedoyin, who is standing trial alongside six of his employees over the alleged murder of a postgraduate student of the Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile-Ife, Timothy Adegoke. Adedoyin, through his lawyer, Ahmed Aderoju, had petitioned the Deputy Inspector-General of Police, alleging defamation, false alarm, incitement, false publication, cyberstalking, unlawful interference with police investigation and judicial proceedings, and criminal threat against him by Hamzat, and others, including one Babagbade Imo, Woibile, and IJKFMB music yard. A reliable source confided in our correspondent that the State Intelligence Bureau (SIB) handed Hamzat over to the FIB. He said, “They initially took him to the airport in Lagos and from there, he was taken to Abuja.” Our correspondent learnt that the SIB, Eleyele, had in a letter signed by CSP Peter Ajogwu, the officer in charge of the SIB, Oyo State, dated Monday, May 23, 2022, invited Hamzat for questioning on Tuesday, May 24. Hamzat, however, honoured the police invitation two days later and was arrested and flown to Abuja. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com