Singer, Oluwajuwonlo Iledare, aka Jaywon, recently accused another singer, Dapo Oyebanjo (D’banj), of releasing his (Jaywon) artiste’s song without his permission. In an interview with Sunday Scoop, he maintained that more established artistes should stop taking advantage of the up-and-coming ones. He said, “The industry is not black and white. Sometimes, one needs to put one’s foot down in order for one to be taken seriously. I actually have no ‘beef’ (issues) with D’banj), but I believe that we, older artistes, should not take advantage of the up-and-coming ones. “There are things we saw while coming up in the industry that should have ended in our days. We are supposed to break such cycles.” On if D’banj had reached out to him since he (Jaywon) called him out on social media, the Filebe singer said, “No, he has not (reached out to him) but I am hoping he would do that. It is all love anyway; no time for beef. I just want the right thing to be done.” Proffering solutions to the issue of song theft in the industry, the former Kennis Music signee said, “There is something called sampling (of existing music), which is not bad. But, taking a portion of someone’s sweat without their permission is not fair. On the international music scene, song theft is a serious crime that comes with heavy consequences. Perhaps, if laws that prohibit intellectual property theft are strictly enforced, artistes whose works have been stolen will get justice, and other people will be deterred from doing such things in the future. Until then, social media is our court.” Speaking about his latest projects, the singer said, “I recently released my album, Jabhalee, which features top artistes and rising stars across Africa, such as Timaya, Seyi Vibez, Medikal, Nament, Portable, Jaywillz and Reybekah.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com