Veteran musician, Friday Igwe, popularly known as Baba Fryo on Tuesday said his new single titled “Show Love” would be released before the end of the year. Igwe, who disclosed this while speaking with the News Agency of Nigeria in Lagos, said he was off the music scene for 20 years until his resumption in 2021. He said considering the series of killings in the nation, individual’s wickedness to one another, activities of bandits and terrorists, it was high time Nigerians understood the power of love. According to him, his new single will enlighten Nigerians on the essence of exhibiting love to one another. “I have been away from the music scene for 20 years now but I came back in 2021 with the release of a single, “Dey Your Dey”, I am trying to follow up with another single now “Show Love”. “Dey Your Dey” tells individuals to desist from being sycophants, parasitic or hypocritical, but ensure to present their true identity and behaviour,” he said. “I will be releasing my new single before the end of the year, I want to make Nigerians realise that we need to cultivate the habit of showing love to one another even with the cases of increased killings in the country. “The situation in the country is terrible, we need to preach love more often, if the bandits and terrorists can show love, there would be no problem in the society,” he said. Igwe said that his kind of music was referred to as Afro-reggae-beats , a fusion of Afrobeats and Reggae music. He said he was aspiring to be like the late Fela Anikulapo-kuti and Bob Marley who were known as freedom fighters. Fondly remembered for his eye patch, Baba Fryo was the Denge Pose master that ruled the airwaves in the 1990s. His song, “Dem go dey pose”, was sung with gusto by both the young and old alike. Straight from the ghetto of Ajegunle, Lagos, Baba Fryo had the right attitude for his kind of music. (NAN) Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com