The Peoples Democratic Party’s Primary Electoral Committee in Ogun State has declared a former member of the House of Representatives, Oladipupo Adebutu, as the party’s governorship candidate in the state. The primary election that produced Adebutu was held at the Olusegun Obasanjo Presidential Library in Abeokuta. The committee’s chairman, Akase Sorkaa, announced Adebutu as the winner after polling 714 votes to defeat other contestants -Segun Sowunmi, Jimi Lawal, and Abimbola Abodunrin- who did not get any vote. Sowunmi had earlier emerged the party’s candidate in a parallel primary held by a faction of the party. In Kano State, Ambassador Aminu Wali’s eldest son, Alhaji Sadiq Wali, won the factional PDP governorship primary conducted on Wednesday night. Wali polled 455 to beat other contestants such as Alhaji Ibrahim Little, who scored 322 votes. Others are Dr. Yusuf Dangwani with 276 votes, Alhaji Mustapha Getso, and Alhaji Jafa’ar Bello, who polled 25 votes each. However, the other faction of the PDP has announced that Mohammed Abacha, son of the late military Head of State, General Sani Abacha, won the governorship ticket. In Akwa Ibom State, there was also a parallel primary. A two-term member of the House of Representatives, Michael Enyong, emerged the winner of a primary conducted at Ewet Housing Estate, Uyo. Enyong, representing the Uyo Federal Constituency at the Federal House of Representatives, was declared the winner of the parallel primary, whose venue was different from the Godswill Akpabio International Stadium, where Umo Eno was declared the winner. In Kaduna State, a former House of Representatives member, Isah Ashiru, emerged the party’s governorship candidate. Ashiru polled 414 votes to defeat other contestants, including a former Director-General of the National Emergency Agency, Sani Sidi, with 260; a former governor of the state, Ramallan Yero, with 28; Sani Abbas with 15; Haruna Saeed with 11; and former lawmaker, Shehu Sani, with 2. In Sokoto State, the immediate past Secretary to the State Government, Saidu Ubandoma, emerged the governorship candidate of the PDP. In Zamfara State, a former Executive Director, First Bank Plc, Dr. Dauda Dare, emerged the party’s candidate. Dare got 431 votes to defeat his opponents, Ibrahim Gusau and Wadatau Madawaki, who got five and three votes respectively. In Niger State, a former Commissioner for Local Government and Chieftaincy Affairs, Liman Kantigi, emerged winner of the PDP governorship primary. In Cross River State, Senator Sandy Onor won the party’s ticket. Onor, who represents Cross River Central Senatorial District, polled 236 votes to beat six other aspirants. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com