The Business Assets & Intellectual Property Valuation Division of the Nigerian Institution of Estate Surveyors and Valuers has called on the Federal Government of Nigeria to look into the development of an intellectual property hub in the country. A statement by the division said that its chairman, Olalekan Akinwunmi, made the call last week in Lagos during World Intellectual Property Day 2022. According to the statement, the theme of the IP day was, “IP and Youth: Innovating for a Better Future”. April 26 every year is celebrated as Intellectual Property Rights’ Day. All member states of the World Intellectual Property Organization use the opportunity to explore the role of Intellectual Property (IP) in the economy, while also encouraging innovation, creativity and right policies which ensure that inventors and creators get handsome rewards for their services. Akinwunmi said that this year’s campaign was an eye-opener for young people to realise their potential and to understand how the tools of the IP system could support their future aspirations. The IP system tools, according to Akinwunmi, included: trademarks, design rights, copyright, patents, plant variety rights, geographical indications, trade secrets, among others. The chairman said the theme was apt because “the youth of today are an incredible and largely untapped source of ingenuity and creativity.” Akinwunmi, who is also a board member of the Estate Surveyors and Valuers Registration Board of Nigeria (ESVARBON), said it was imperative to focus on the youth as they possessed fresh perspectives, energy, curiosity, “can do” attitude, and hunger for a better future. He added that youth were already rewriting narratives and driving action for innovation and change. He said, “We implore the Federal Government to build IP hubs, geared towards the youth. As a nation, we need to encourage our youths at every stratum by having enabling laws that protect their rights. This would in turn attract direct foreign investment via innovations. “The value of the entertainment and creative industry is in the trillions of naira. The strategy of converting their discoveries and inventions into money is very important. That is where we become relevant; the valuation of this right is germane and it is a pointer that their future is bright because they could see value for their talents and works.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com