The Coalition of Northern Groups has declared as unfortunate the seven-day ultimatum given by some blood-thirsty kidnappers, who attacked and kidnapped passengers aboard the Kaduna-bound AK9 train on March 28, 2022. In a recent letter, the kidnappers said they would begin to kill the abductees if the government failed to meet their demands in seven days. Parts of the demands also included the unconditional release of their detained children held in an orphanage home in Adamawa State under the strict supervision of the Nigerian Army as well as the release of their detained comrades at arm. Reacting, the spokesperson for the CNG, Abdul-Azeez Suleiman, in an interview with Saturday PUNCH said it was ridiculous that a country that prides itself as having formidable armed forces would acknowledge threats from a ‘gang of criminals’. “The Coalition of Northern Groups has read with utter perplexity about the seven-day ultimatum said to have been given by the terrorists or else they start killing the passengers they abducted during the Abuja-Kaduna train attack two months ago. “It is unfortunate that innocent people will be separated from their families for such a long time subjecting them and their loved ones to unimaginable trauma and exposing them to hazards and other unforeseen dangers. “It is also ridiculous that a country with defined armed forces that used to be acknowledged for gallantry should descend this low as to be intimated for so long by gangs of criminals. “While we don’t doubt the need for government to do everything to ensure the safe return of the captives, including perhaps attending to the demands of the bandits provided they are reasonable, we still feel strongly that it is time we begin to call the bluff of these bandits. “I don’t think these things about the terrorists talking to people and setting conditions are going to solve the matter. “The whole affair is becoming one big drama unfolding in a series. I don’t think it would be that easy for gangs of forest bandits to be able to operate with such audacious regularity unhindered without sensing a vacuum in the political will of officials to challenge them,” Suleiman said. He also urged the government to reclaim the forests, land borders, highways, airports and railways that had been abandoned to criminals. “Those who pose as northern leaders today are also not helping the situation; they are rather more engrossed in the politics of 2023 as though everything is normal. They are pretending not to see the threats posed by the activities of these bandits to the elections they are fighting over. “They are not bothered by the reality of famine in the land with productive lands taken over. I think we should call the bluff of the terrorists,” he added. Copyright PUNCH All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com