The African Centre for Media and Information Literacy, Premium Times Books, and the Network of Book Clubs and Reading Promoters in Nigeria, are presenting copies of the book, ‘Remaking Nigeria: Sixty Years, Sixty Voices’ to political aspirants, public libraries and book clubs across the country. The exercise is ahead of the groups’ participation at the 21st edition of the Annual Nigerian International Book Fair held from May 12-14, 2022. This was contained in a statement made available to The PUNCH on Wednesday. The book, which was produced to commemorate Nigeria’s 60th independence anniversary is a compendium of essays by 60 young Nigerians edited by Chido Onumah, Coordinator of AFRICMIL, and published by PT Books. Onumah said, “The essays are analytical, insightful, pragmatic and offer solutions to ‘the trouble with Nigeria.’ We hope that they will inspire a new generation of Nigerians on what the country needs to do to fulfil the promise and hope of independence.” Three copies of the book will be donated to each of the presidential aspirants in all the registered political parties. Copies will also be made available to media houses, youth organisations, public libraries, and book clubs across the country. Contributors to the book are young Nigerians with fresh ideas on nationhood, democracy, and development. The book focuses on issues such as federalism, elections and democracy, constitutionalism, environmental justice, data and ICT, the economy and social inclusion, media and press freedom, youth engagement, law and human rights, education and social services, religion and multiculturalism, leadership challenge and good governance, corruption and accountability, foreign policy and regional cooperation. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com