A coalition of groups rooting for a former Governor of Abia State, Peter Obi, from within and outside Nigeria, to become Nigeria’s President in 2023 said they have concluded arrangements to organise a one-million-man march in solidarity and support of his presidential bid. The march, which would hold across the 36 states and the Federal Capital Territory, would be anchored by the Coalition for Peter Obi, said to be made up of more than a dozen of Obi support groups. The chairman of the coalition, Mr Marcel Ngogbehei, in a statement on Friday, said the support groups include Peter Obi Support Network, Like Minds for Peter Obi, Nigeria Needs Peter Obi, TakeBackNaija, Women for Peter Obi, Associates of Peter Obi, Peter Obi FC, Peter Obi movement for president, Associates of Peter Obi, Peter Obi Candidacy Movement, Peter Obi Ambassadors, TeamOHO, among others. Ngogbehei, in the statement titled ‘Coalition Organises One Million March Across 36 States, FCT for Peter Obi,’ added that the groups had been mobilised to ensure the success of the movement on Saturday. The convener noted that the goal of the exercise was to demand that the Peoples Democratic Party delegates queue behind Obi at the party’s primaries. “We, as support groups for Peter Obi, are organising a one-million-man march on Saturday, May 21, 2022, across the 36 states of the federation and FCT, in a bid to show maximum solidarity, love, and support for our principal’s divine mandate for the 2023 presidency. “The one-million-man march is to ensure that Nigerians of like minds come out en masse in all the states of the federation and the Federal Capital Territory in solidarity with the presidential aspirant. The one million-man march is anchored by Coalition for Peter Obi, which is made up of more than a dozen different support groups for Mr Peter Obi. “All supporters of Peter Obi will participate fully in the march all over Nigeria. The one-million-man match is a show of solidarity and love for the credible candidature of Mr Peter Obi.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com