The Sir Emeka Okwuosa Foundation has unveiled a world-class cardiology facility in Oraifite, Ekwusigo Local Government Area of Anambra State. The organisation said it is part of its efforts at improving medical care as well as reducing the high rate of medical tourism. Speaking while conducting journalists round the facility on Tuesday, the Foundation’s Community Mobilisation Manager, Mr Oselloka Offoh, said the hospital was equipped with world-class facilities for the advancement of medical science with specialties in critical care management and automated surgery procedures. Offoh stressed that the hospital, in collaboration with critical institutions, would transit into a teaching hospital with a view to grooming young talents and medical professionals in Nigeria. He said the medical facility is an initiative to immortalise Dame Irene Okwuosa, who he described as a fearless planner and mentor to many by championing the rights of women and children. He said, “The kind of innovation and revolution we are bringing in the health sector with the state of the art hospital is the type that cannot be found anywhere in Africa, that is why everybody is coming from everywhere to see it. “This facility is bringing new medical hope to our people, we are bringing this to our people because our people have been spending so much money travelling abroad for medical treatment, now all the medical facilities are available at here at Oraifite. “The hospital will be offering a two-week free heart surgery to people suffering the ailment across the country, beginning from May 2. The manager of the hospital, Mr Aghomishe Ogaga, said expatriates have been engaged in the area of technology transfer with a view to train and retrain indigenous medical personnel. Ogaga said, “This is a big boost to Nigeria’s medical sector, the health care needs of Nigerians will be addressed with the facilities at this hospital. Here, all manners of surgeries, ranging from minor to supra major surgeries can be catered to, people don’t need to travel abroad anymore to seek medical attention as all the equipment are here. “This is a multimillion dollar health investment aimed at advancing medical science needs. With this, medical tourism will be a thing of the past in Nigeria.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com