The Nigerian-British Chamber of Commerce has called for a restructuring of the Fast-Moving Consumer Goods sector to align with the industry’s best practices. The chamber made the call during its breakfast meeting held in Lagos on Thursday. Speaking during his keynote presentation, Group Managing Director of UAC Foods, Fola Aiye,  said FMCG companies must restructure operations to align with emerging trends in the industry. He said, “If you have the right people, the right culture, the right structure in place, you need to grow an FMCG business. By far, the most important thing you need to work on is your brand.” He emphasised the need for FMCG businesses to prioritise quality and availability of products ahead of fanciful advertising and publicity. “Most people believe that building the brand is how fancy your adverts are, and so you see people spending incredible amounts of money on celebrities and catchy adverts, but we found that, by far, the most important thing for brand-building is consistent quality and availability. Can you get your products out consistently at a good quality? As an FMCG company, you write an exam every single day. “Every day people buy your product, and every single day, you must pass the test. Is the quality the same or better than yesterday? It is incredibly difficult to achieve this. Many FMCG companies get tempted to go to the easier side of above-the-line marketing versus getting this right. If you succeed in getting the same shape, taste of the product, the second thing now becomes, is it available? One thing consumers don’t forgive you for is buying a product on Monday and Tuesday and then running out of stock on Wednesday. So, consistent quality and availability are the holy grail of FMCG.” He added that companies were more vulnerable when they were more successful and must ensure that standards were not compromised as a result of momentary market dominance.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com