THE Director of Cartography Department, National Population Commission, Mrs Geraldine Arukwe, has disclosed that the commission plans to conduct a paperless population census using tablets during the 2023 census. She made this disclosure on Monday at the capacity building workshop for journalists on the 2023 population and housing census in New Karu, around the outskirts of Abuja. She said, “We are going to do a digital census. We are going to do a paperless census. We will be using tablets, personal digital assistance. So, it is not like before when we had to print forms and carry them and sometimes, some forms will get missing. We are going to do a paperless census.” The Chairman of the commission, Nasir Isa-Kwarra, in his opening remarks, noted that insecurity has been a major challenge to preparatory efforts toward the population and housing census He said, “I am pleased to inform you all that the outcome of the preparatory activities of the 2023 population and housing census has been reassuring. “The commission has successfully demarcated 772 LGAs in all the states of the federation and the FCT, the remaining two LGAs of Abadam (Borno State) and Birnin Gwari (Kaduna State) which has not been demarcated as a result of security challenge will be demarcated very soon.” He added that the commission would carry out a trial census in June this year. “The commission has also conducted the first and the second census pre-test exercises to test the census instruments in preparation for the census. The trial census will be conducted in June this year,” he said. The Federal Government had recently revealed plans to hold the national population census in April 2023, which would make it the first time such an exercise will be held in 17 years. The last time Nigeria conducted the exercise was in 2006. The Federal Government had planned to conduct the exercise in 2021 but it was later put off largely due to insecurity in parts of the country. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com