The Borno State Governor, Professor Babagana Zulum, has enthused that irrespective of competence of the APC presidential aspirants and the strength of their manifestos, the anointed candidate of the president, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), will most likely fly the party’s flag in the 2023 presidential election. Zulum made this disclosure on Sunday in Maiduguri while receiving the campaign team of Rotimi Ameachi, which was led by the aspirant’s campaign Director General, Ali Ndume, and members of the campaign team in a meeting with delegates and members of the APC in Borno State. Zulum said Borno delegates have no preferred aspirant at the moment but the delegates will vote for a credible candidate based on the preference of the president and their convictions. “Borno State delegates will vote based on their conscience. But again, our leader, General Muhammadu Buhari, is very important in this political equation. We are still waiting for him to tell us what to do and we will follow. His advice is very important so we have to wait for his advice. “Nigerians should pray for a good candidate to emerge irrespective of tribe, region or ethnic background but a candidate that will ensure the APC forms the central government come 2023,” Zulum remarked. In his speech, the APC presidential hopeful, Rotimi Ameachi, who had a former Chief of Army Staff, Lt. General Yusuf Buratai (retd.), and former Inspector-General of Police, Abba Suleiman, in his entourage, pledged for the votes of the delegates from Borno in order to bring an end to insurgency and all forms of insecurity in the country as, according to him, he brought about peace, safety, security and stability being enjoyed today in Rivers State when he was the governor and he would do same if allowed to fly the APC flag in the 2023 elections. “When I was governor of Rivers State, Buratai was a brigade commander while Abba Suleiman was the police commissioner. We ensured we engaged the teeming and idle youths by giving them jobs that kept them from the street. By so doing we forestalled peace to the creeks in the state. “I urge you, Borno State delegates, to vote by your conscience, to vote for me based on the belief that I will guarantee safety of lives and property in Borno, the North-East and the nation,” Amaechi said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com