Prestige Assurance Plc recorded 32 per cent growth in gross written premium in its 2021 financial accounts. The acting Chairman of the company, Dr Muftau Oyegunle, disclosed this while presenting the annual report at its 52nd annual general meeting. He said, “A gross premium written of N9.27bn was generated as against N7.01bn generated in the preceding year, an increase of 32 per cent. “The net premium earned during the period under review was N4.59bn and 32 per cent increase over the preceding period of 2020, which recorded N3.47bn.” He said the company’s profit after tax for the preceding period was N678m, and N688m was recorded in the reporting period – an increase of 1.47 per cent. In line with its desire to continually ensure appreciable returns to its shareholders, he said the board recommended a dividend of 15k (one and half kobo) per ordinary share. He said, “Our shareholders will be receiving a total of N199m in dividends for 2021 financial year, which is subject to appropriate withholding tax and pending approval at this AGM. “We remain committed towards regular dividend payments to our shareholders in appreciation of their faith in the company.” The Managing Director, Rajesh Kamble, said it generated an underwriting profit of N801.75m and when adjusted for the adverse effects of COVID-19 and the economic contraction, its operating profit exceeded the prior year’s record levels. He said, “The highlights of our overall business performance reveals that the fire portfolio generated 29.3 per cent growth in the year 2021, thus contributing to 37 per cent of the GWP. “However, marine and aviation became the most profitable business in the entire portfolio, generating N2.078bn in GPI and resulting in N554.0m underwriting profit and contributing 23 per cent to the GPI. “Our persistent focus on productivity has led to further improvements in the underlying profitability, as we have increased our profit before tax for the third consecutive year.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com