The Senator representing Lagos West in the National Assembly, Olamilekan Adeola, popularly known as Yayi, has said that his movement into Ogun State politics is now smooth. He said his return to Ogun State politics, after about 20 years in Lagos state, started on a rough note due to stiff resistance from his kinsmen and some political leaders. Adeola said this on Saturday in Ilaro, Yewa South Local Government Area of Ogun State shortly after he was conferred with Aremo of Yewaland alongside other chiefs by the Olu of Ilaro and Paramount Ruler of Yewaland, Oba Kehinde Olugbenle. The installation was part of the 10th coronation anniversary of the monarch. The senator, who spoke with newsmen at the event, said it was a rough battle switching his political base from Lagos West to Ogun West, where he is an aspirant for the senatorial seat in next election. He said, “It was least expected. When I made my initial approach to return back home, I was faced with a lot of challenges from my people. “Now, if my people now turn around and appreciate me to the extent of putting money together to buy my form for me, I believe it is a big deal and I sincerely appreciate them. We started rough but now it’s as smooth as ever.” He however denied that the Aremo of Yewaland title bestowed on him was  politically- motivated, describing it as an appreciation of his contribution to the development of the region. He added, “I strongly believe that this chieftaincy title is not politically-motivated. I just believe it is in appreciation and the belief in me by my people that I can do everything that’s humanly possible to contribute my own quota to the development of the land. “So, when it comes to politics, I strongly believe that, that is a different ball game and different terrain entirely.” On the challenges of development in Yewaland, Adeola said he knows where the shoe pinches and he would leverage on his legislative experiences to bring meaningful development to the region, if elected as Ogun West Senator. In his remarks, the state Governor, Dapo Abiodun, told Adeola and other honourees that the chieftaincy title bestowed on them was a call to duty and they could not afford to fail.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com