There is no doubt that this is not the best of times for the Nigerian economy and it has hardly been in the last nine years. The last two years of President Goodluck Jonathan (2010-2015) were not so good. The global recession at the time was already causing havoc on the economy and insecurity was also becoming intractable until there was a complete breakdown with the kidnap of Leah Sharibu and her over 270 schoolmates at the Government Girls Secondary School in Chibok, Borno State in 2014. The insecurity and economic issues were two of the major planks on which the All Progressive Congress capitalised to defeat the Peoples Democratic Party in 2015. Since the APC took over in 2015, the economic and security conditions have worsened due to both natural and self-inflicted factors. The major natural factor has to do with COVID-19, which was a global phenomenon. No one can blame the government for the resulting recession characterised by a fall in demand for goods and services as well as in production and the concomitant rise in unemployment. However, the implementation of the palliative measures fell short of international standards in terms of speed of response and depth of implementation. In the typical Nigerian fashion, the officials, designated to implement the programmes, were more concerned about what was in it for them. As was later detected through looting, there were lots of hoarding of the palliative materials, including foodstuff, in the face of hunger and death. The complaint, the insinuations and the shouts of inefficiency and corruption did not elicit a positive or negative reaction from the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.). President Buhari has made the presidency in Nigeria a simple task for those coming after the expiration of his tenure. The way the president is stand-offish or remote many times when the political environment seems to be boiling makes people feel it is easy to rule Nigeria. More so when, at the end of the day, the tension dies out naturally. He runs the Nigerian business with seamless mien such that every experienced and political neophyte thinks the best position to contest is the presidency. That must explain why despite the huge price of the nomination form for the position, especially by the two main parties, the demand continues to rise. It was very clear that even though the president had tried many times to win elections, he was not in a hurry to take the economy or even the nation out of the economic wilderness he inherited. We recall that it took the president over six months to present the list of ministers to the National Assembly. It was part of the simplicity with which the president takes his time and what it means to be a president in Nigeria. But that seems to be the reason why the economy refused to grow in real terms. There is a difference between what economists call nominal growth and real growth which government, particularly the leadership of governments, must understand. The Nigerian Bureau of Statistics often announces that the economy has grown by, say, four per cent and the Minister of Information and Minister of Finance would go to town to echo the announcement without asking whether it is nominal or real growth. But it is in most cases nominal growth which is just multiplying current outputs with current prices. If either of the two goes up, economic growth is said to have occurred. That is why the president and his team do not know that they have reduced the lives of the majority of Nigerians to what it was immediate post-civil war period in 1971! When the World Bank estimates showed that Nigeria had become the poverty capital of the world, just a few weeks after the Bureau of Statistics indicated that the economy grew by 2.5 per cent, the economic managers ignored the foreign statistics thinking it was meant to defame the new image they have just achieved. Since they rarely go to the downtown side of Abuja or hardly live on their primary income, they could not believe the external reports. While the nominal national income, depicting economic growth, would show the present state of living, the real would show where you are today compared with yesterday, last year or sometime past. I do not want to believe that the president has time to listen to the radio, watch television to get news, listen to analyses about Nigeria or engage in reading critical issues on social media. He is too busy for that when he is not Donald Trump who used to be glued to his Twitter handle to monitor events and respond to citizens’ comments in real-time. So, our president depends on hearsay and those who carry the news to him, do so with the intention to ‘make Mr President happy.’ The same thing goes for a large proportion of the governors and most political officeholders. They seem to be busy for personal reasons and therefore overrate themselves. How do you describe some governors who could not pay wages and salaries regularly or pay the pension of retirees going ahead to buy form to contest for a second term or even for the presidency? How can a minister of labour who could not run a ministry successfully by solving labour issues efficiently and effectively or a minister of education who feels unconcerned about the decay in the education system and closure of the public universities have the effrontery to aspire to become Nigerian president? How do you describe a situation in which a central bank governor who assumed office when the exchange rate between naira and dollar was officially around N180 and would be thinking of becoming president of Nigeria when under his watch, the official exchange rate has depreciated to N419? How can we explain away all these and more obnoxious scenarios? Do we really matter? They have all seen from the present attitude of Mr President that the people do not matter just as the country can move on without a call for caution from the president. Most of the ministers have also imbibed the same attitude. Suggestions in newspaper editorials, socio-political and economic discussions in public space, including television programmes and comments from professional associations, that do not coterminous with their thoughts and agenda cannot influence their actions. They just stay aloof or unconcerned but go ahead with their plans. For instance, the finance ministry has been warned even by international financial institutions that our external borrowing has become unsustainable. The minister remains visible in the loan arena! What matters in Nigeria today, and probably as before, is that holding office guarantees you a cardless withdrawal from the country’s open Automated Teller Machine. If you are caught through the prying eyes of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission and found guilty after spending one or two years at home or in a luxurious hospital, you can then spend another one or two years in prison before you are released to go back to the political field to recover lost ground. It does not matter the political party you belong to. So long you are in government, you have the license to help yourself into the ATM. The two ruling parties are, at best, the same when it comes to corruption. The citizens seem to have entered what agberos (bus conductors and motor garage boys) call ‘one chance’! I have seen some cartoons where kids were asked what kind of jobs they would want to be engaged in future and the answer was always Nigerian politics because it brings wealth with little effort. After the initial costs of getting elected, even with a loan, one can kiss poverty goodbye. I have also had opportunities, at different times, of asking my students, potential economists, to rank their preferred jobs after graduation and national youth service. The answers have always been in the same order: politics and ‘politicking’; then civil service, customs and police. Whatever you think all these occupations have in common is your thought. Please don’t rope me in because, in economics, they all render services and deserved to be paid.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com