A former frontline presidential aspirant on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party, Sam Ohuabunwa, has alleged that delegates could not resist the $10,000, $15,000 and $20,000 offered them by the ‘four leading contestants’, during the party’s presidential special convention in Abuja, during the weekend. According to the immediate past President of the Pharmaceutical Society of Nigeria, the effect of money was overwhelming in the choice made by delegates, at the presidential convention. The Abia State-born former Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Neimeth Pharmaceuticals Plc stated this in a Thank You Message to his supporters, Nigerians, and members of the New Nigeria Group, a copy of which was made available to The PUNCH, on Monday. He said although his team did not achieve the interim goal of seeing him become the presidential candidate of the main opposition party in the forthcoming election, “most people including the enlightened PDP members acknowledge that we brought a breadth of fresh air to political campaigns.” The message read, “Dear new Nigerians, I wish to begin by thanking God for bringing us safely to the conclusion of another stage in our patriotic mission to birth a new Nigeria – that will be a globally competitive first-world nation that works for all. “Though we did not achieve our interim goal to be the presidential candidate of the PDP in the forthcoming elections, most people including enlightened PDP members acknowledge that we brought a breadth of fresh air to political campaigns. “It is clear that the effect of money was overwhelming in the choice made by the delegates. It was also clear that the delegates could not resist the lure of 20,000, 15000, and 10,000 dollars offered by the four leading contestants. We were aware that money would be a factor, but we had hoped it would not be the exclusive factor. “Let me state that I am not discouraged at all. I believe that we fought a good battle and achieved tangible and intangible results. Nigerians and the international community are now acutely aware of what we represent.” It added, “I intend to remain active and visible for the rest of the campaign season leading to the 2023 elections. For now, we will remain in the PDP until the Lord directs otherwise. “Let me also confirm that the NNG movement will remain active until our vision is accomplished. So it does not matter how this present struggle ends, NNG will have a perpetual existence until we birth the New Nigeria of our dreams. “I wish to thank all the foundation members of this movement, the steering committee, the PAC, the fundraising committee, the Publicity Committee, the third force committee, and all other committees. I wish to thank all the officers of both NNG and MSO 2023 Campain Team, from coordinators to directors, deputy directors and the DDG, the Chief of Staff, media aides, etc. “I can not end this address without putting on record, the extraordinary sacrifice made by our diaspora members, particularly the NNG-USA to support our campaign by repeatedly raising funds. Certainly, the story would have been different without their love, sacrifice, and consistency. “Ladies and gentlemen, we just finished a page of the book; we have not come to the end of the book. The NNG vision remains alive and relevant. And we can not stop until the vision and mission are accomplished. “May God bless all members of NNG, MSO 2023, all our supporters, and all those who have contributed in one way or the other to get us to this historic point. “But all Glory, honour, and adoration are reserved exclusively to our great and mighty God, who alone brought us this far and who will certainly take us to the expected end. God bless.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com