Bauchi State Governor and 2023 presidential aspirant, Bala Muhammed, on Sunday evening in Katsina declared that Nigerians need to sit down together and discuss how the country can move forward again. He made the declaration in an interview with newsmen shortly after he met delegates and leaders of the Peoples Democratic party in Katsina state over his ambition to rule Nigeria in 2023. Senator Muhammed observed that Nigeria, which was once the envy of other countries in terms of achievements, was currently facing several challenges including insecurity,a battered economy and suspicion among her citizens. The PDP Presidential aspirant said our past leaders still managed “little resources” available to them to achieve a lot, wondering where the country got it wrong. Senator Muhammed, however, assured that he had required experience and commitment to fix Nigeria again,if given the opportunity to serve. He said he had done it as a civil servant,as a senator and as the state Governor, insisting ruling Nigeria would not be a problem for him. Senator Muhammed declared, “I am here in Katsina canvassing for delegates to choose wisely and I told them my mission and vision for Nigeria, the problems of Federation, the perception problem, the insecurity, the battered economy and the need for inclusion to remove nepotism, mistrust and suspicious, the need for love and fraternity, to live and lets live. “To make sure we choose wisely people like us who have cognate experience. I have gathered a lot of experience, I have passed through all the mills of preparedness to lead with humility and I have done it in FCT, Iam doing it in Bauchi, I have done it as a civil servant and as a media man. The Bauchi state Governor said as a democrat, he was ready to support whoever emerges as Nigeria President although he believed strongly that he would emerge as Nigeria’s next leader. His words, “Power comes from Allah and as a person who believes in that, whoever gets this power, I hope it will be me, as a democrat. Or maybe if it is not me, but whoever gets it, I will support him.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com