The Governor of Ondo State, Rotimi Akeredolu, on Tuesday, appreciated some eminent individuals and organisations with awards for their contributions to the development and growth of agriculture in the state. He also provided N2bn to support farmers with a view to boosting oil palm output in the state. According to a statement by the Chief Press Secretary to the Governor, Richard Olatunde, this happened at the Cocoa Conference Hall of the Governor’s office, Alagbaka, Akure. “Since February 2017, our government has been striving so hard to put everything in place to ensure the sustainability of the scheme and to inculcate the necessary entrepreneurship skill into our youths with a view to making them employers of labour. The State Government, through OSAEC, has provided all necessary requirements like land clearing and development, machinery and equipment, shelter, basic facilities, technology, training etc to achieve this purpose, thereby creating a new generation of agripreneurs that can move into the sector and compete anywhere in the world,” Akeredolu was quoted as saying. The governor said his administration was making efforts to see Ondo state become the largest producer of palm oil, saying that with the 70,000 hectares of land allocated to investors for palm oil cultivation and cocoa production, the State of Ondo would be on the world map of palm oil production. Akeredolu said the N2bn support would launch Ondo State into the world map of palm oil production. The governor said one of the aims of this development was to make agriculture attractive to the young ones, adding that Amotekun stations would be built in the farm areas to ensure that the farmers were protected. He also announced his approval for the recruitment of additional 350 personnel into the Ondo State Amotekun Corps to strengthen the operation of the outfit. “It is not an overstatement that the task of nation-building is a collective responsibility. Government cannot do it alone. All hands must, therefore, be on deck to take us to our seeming El-dorado. Permit me to say that as awardees, you are an inspiration to our youths. Your various achievements in your chosen fields of agriculture and agribusiness are the testimonies that our vision in the State in the field of agriculture is being realised.” He said, “Recently, there was training and capacity building for about 400 indigenous and Fulani pastoralists on Feedlot Operational System of Livestock Management at the instance of FAO/ODSG. Arrangement is in the pipeline to facilitate credit facility for the registered members through the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN).” On behalf of the awardees, Rev Gideon Oluleye, who bagged the Distinguished Broiler Producer, 2021 Award, commended the Ondo State Government for giving them a great programme. The Senior Special Assistant to the Governor on Agric and Agribusiness, Akin Olotu, appreciated Akeredolu for his giant strides in the agric sector, explaining that the awards cut across different sectors, individuals, corporate bodies, young and old ones, aged farmers, and civil servants.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com