AS someone said several years ago, when it comes to excuses, the world is full of great inventors. Reason is because anyone can manufacture as many excuses as possible to excuse any action or inaction. Sure enough, the demand of the South-East to produce a president in 2023 cannot be an exception as a cursory look at the arguments to run down the demand shows. One of the arguments is that the Igbo are not the only group that has not produced a president. This is correct and the Igbo as a people are not contesting it. But what they are saying (for the avoidance of doubt) is that what is good for Tom (one or any Nigerian) is equally good for Dick and Harry (other Nigerians), which is a very important consideration for peaceful co-existence, especially in a plural society like ours, and that in any case, the Igbo are (please note carefully) one of the three major ethnic groups (Hausa/Fulani, Igbo and Yoruba) in the three regions, wiz: Northern Region, Eastern Region and Western Region, respectively (1946-1960s) of the country that together spear-headed in no small measure, the decolonization struggle, and eventual independence and unity of what we today know as Nigeria. And (please also note) that since the two other major ethnic groups (Hausa/Fulani in the North and the Yoruba in the West) have virtually, “concessionally,” produced presidents, one after the other, it is therefore simply common-sensically in order, legitimate and just that what is good for the goose is good also for the gander. In other words, they (the Igbo), want a fair deal for them to also produce a president in the spirit of fairness, justice, equity etc. to enhance national unity and peaceful co-existence before the other two major ethnic groups (the Yoruba and the Hausa/Fulani — in the West and North respectively would — want or aspire for the second (or even more) turns. This clearly, is the demand of the Igbo. This is because, as they say in local parlance “if you say that what you have been holding for some time is for all of us, give it to me and let me also hold it for some time.” Ignoring this argument is tantamount to lip service or sheer hypocritical attitude to national unity, peaceful co-existence, justice, equity, etc. giving regard, especially to the spectacularly legendary role their leader (Dr Nnamdi Azikiwe – “Zik” for short) played during the decolonization struggle, standing toweringly for national unity and peace, with one concession after the other, even including taking the back seat, according to him, for the “ship of state to sail”. And it is clearly on the record, and which is noteworthy, that while his peers were in-ward-looking, Zik was outward, clearly pan-Nigerian and even pan-African such that while his peers wanted regional police, for example, he (Zik) stood virtually bare-chested for federal police, which he felt was absolutely necessary at the time to cement national unity that was then fragile. Recall all the walkouts and even secession threats by some other people in the early 50s. Zik’s pan-Nigerian, or rather pan-African stance, was not in doubt one bit, as evident in the names he gave any of the organisations he set up. For example, the major political party (the NCNC), which he played a major role to set up, was not only for Nigeria but also for Cameroon and was thus named the “National Council for Nigeria and the Cameroon” before it later became the “National Council for Nigerian Citizens” following the exit of Southern Cameroon.  The newspaper he set up in 1937 was for West Africa and named West African Pilot; the bank he established was for Africa (African Continental Bank), and the University he established was for Nigeria (University of Nigeria)! And even in far away Gold Coast (now Ghana), the newspaper he established and edited (1934 – 1937) under the sponsorship of a Gold Coaster before he (Zik) returned to Nigeria, was named “African Morning Post” whose motto was “To be neutral except on that which concerns Africa”! And this philosophy of pan Nigerialism on virtually all he did was unique then! It is clearly not in doubt that the pan Nigerian disposition of Zik encouraged the Igbo as a people to strongly believe in “One Nigeria” to the effect that many Igbo began to move out of Igboland in the late 30s and settled in various parts of the country with unshaken confidence, doing business, and making lifetime investments everywhere, building bonds of oneness, and bridges of national unity all over the country, such that even today, there is no nook or cranny of this country where there is no Igbo man or woman! The foregoing clearly tears into shreds the next argument that the Igbo do not believe in “One Nigeria,” that they are Biafrans and would divide Nigeria if elected president! How? By executive fiat? Major General Aguiyi Ironsi as Military Head of State and Supreme Commander of the Armed Forces didn’t even do it but rather opted for the unitary government! The most ridiculous aspect of this argument is that the majority of those who hold this view are those who all their life have not stepped out of their ethnic enclaves, and not to talk of doing business or investing in anything of noticeable presence outside their ethnic homesteads. It is of course not unlikely that those, who say the Igbo do not believe in “One Nigeria,” are those who, for reasons best known to them, associate the Igbo as an ethnic group with IPOB, which is just like associating the Fulani as a people with “killer herdsmen,” which is as wrong as it is unfortunate. The other argument against the demand is that “democracy is a game of numbers,” which to an extent is correct, only that those who argue this way tend to equate “democracy” with “election” per se, which belongs to the “process principle,” forgetting the “goal principle” which is order, which is equity, etc. In other words, they tend to forget that democracy also emphasises “rights”— rights of man that are inalienable, non-negotiable and non-transferable—so fundamental that where “your right stops is where mine begins”; “your right to own presupposes your right to guarantee; live and let live,” all of which are sine qua non for peaceful co-existence, equity and justice in any society. We always harp on the “majoritarian” principle (to serve ends) as if it is the be-all and end-all of democracy; it is only a part and not the whole. Does one even need to be reminded that democracy or even politics does not prescribe chaos? If anything, democracy, or even the whole essence of politics is to ensure order and sanity— a just and humane society, far away from what obtains in a state of nature, or even in an animal kingdom where (might is right); where morality is thrown to the dogs; a scenario where “survival of the fittest” holds sway and life, as Hobbles reasoned, is, among others, brutish and nasty. The above could also defeat the argument that there is no morality in politics (even in decent societies also?) as if one is saying that politics is in love with anarchy, greed (grab-grab mentality), injustice, insensitivity to national cause, opportunism, etc. And even agreed that democracy is a game of numbers, it is certainly not that of “crowd” or “mob” as Plato feared. There must be order, and good enough, “zoning,” “consensus,” “concession” (and someone could even mention “imposition”) have today become prominent in our political/democracy lexicon, the essence being to ensure order, inclusiveness, or sense of belonging, justice, equity, peaceful co-existence, etc. And all these are by no means new in any way; they have been used/applied in the past; the pity is that some of those who have benefited from them at one point or other are now, for sheer selfishness of man, opposing it. And this is the hypocrisy that has become our middle name! Obiallor writes via obiallorcas@yahoo.com  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com