A housewife identified only as Faith together with her children has been abducted by a yet-to-be identified kidnapper in Sapele, headquarters of Sapele Local Government Area of Delta State. Our correspondent gathered that the masked gunman drove away the victims in the family’s Toyota Sienna Car, 2007 model. The abduction took place at Okirigbagha in Okirighwre area of Sapele. The incident reportedly occurred at about 10pm on Friday as the woman and children were being driven home by the husband after the woman closed from her cosmetic shop. Sources told Sunday PUNCH that the gunman struck suddenly at the entrance to the family house located on Ojo Alaba Street, Okirighwre residence as the husband was trying to open the gate. Eyewitnesses said that the gunman suddenly struck and whisked away the woman and her children to an undisclosed destination. It was further gathered that the husband, while trying to open the gate, noticed someone who wore a black mask. But while trying to retreat, the kidnapper pointed a gun at him and commanded him to lie down on the floor. Sunday PUNCH learnt that the hoodlum threatened to shoot the husband if he raised the alarm as he entered the car and zoomed off with the woman and her children. The husband was quoted as posting on Sapele Matters, a Facebook page, thus, “My family has just been kidnapped in my Sienna Car at Ojo Alaba Street Okirighwre.’ “Toyota Sienna 2007. My wife’s name is Faith. She get cosmetic store for Okirighwre Junction.” Meanwhile, the abductor has yet to make contact with the husband or any family member as of the time of filing this report. When contacted, the state police spokesperson, Edafe Bright, promised to find out about the situation. He had yet to get the details as of the time of filing this report.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com