Joshua Lidani, a former deputy governor of Gombe State has defeated Bulus Amos, a serving senator to get the ticket of the All Progressives Congress for the South senatorial district. While Bulus Amos had 40 votes, Bilyaminu Babadidi polled 70, leaving Joshua Lidani with 90 votes. Declaring the result after about one hour that the delegates completed the voting process, the Returning Officer, Sabo Sani, said Joshua won by pulling the highest votes. “The total number of voters is 200, total accredited is 200, the total void vote is nil, senator B.K Amos scored 40, Bilyaminu Babadidi had 70 and Senator Joshua Lidani scored 90, senator Lidani is declared winner of the election,” Sani said. Our correspondent reports that officials of the Independent National Electoral Commission, aspirants, and delegates were among those asked to leave the Billiri venue of the primary election. However, argument erupted after the announcement of the results. Lidani was a former senator who represented the constituency in 2011 under the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party before his defection to the APC in 2018. Also, the senator representing Gombe Central, Danjuma Goje, has been declared the winner of the primary election. Out of 105 accredited voters, Goje scored 100 votes, leaving Abubakar Mu’azu with three, and former Senator Umar Idris with two votes to secure his seat back in the red chamber. The Gombe Central senator, who arrived in the state from Abuja on Saturday, moved straight to the election venue, thereby, dispelling insinuation that he may not pick the ticket. Meanwhile, Senator representing Gombe North Ahmed Alkali had been returned having scored the biggest votes. Alkali polled 216 votes, Bello Bala scored 31 votes, while Haidar Aliyu Abubakar scored 10 votes. Our correspondent reports that three absentees got accredited, but failed to vote. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com