Kwara State Government said that it has secured the delivery of 4,329 tablets and smartphones for teachers to implement the KwaraLEARN education programme Other requirements for the programme such as procurement of 250 blackboards, hiring of IT operation teams, setting up of teachers’ tablets and, validation of tech applications in schools has also been put in place. The Chairman of the State Universal Primary Education Board, Sheu Adaramaja, said that the government would on May 16, 2022 kick-start its data-driven education transformation project, KwaraLEARN, across 365 primary schools in the state. According to a statement signed by Rafiu Ajakaye, Chief Press Secretary to the governor, Adaramaja said that the programme would commence across 365 primary schools in Baruten, Offa, Ilorin East, and Ilorin West Local Government Areas of the state. The KwaraLEARN intervention by Governor AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq’s administration is a public education transformation programme to improve teaching and learning using innovative technology, data-driven platforms, high-quality learning materials, effective training and continuous coaching and support for teachers and school administrators. “KwaraLEARN could not have come at a better time, given the challenges education is facing in Nigeria as captured by a United Nations Children’s Fund report delivered during a recent programme,” he said. “Starting with governance, the Kwara State Ministry of Education, KwaraSUBEB and our technical partner, NewGlobe, developed a project communication and coordination plan to guide the management of the programme. “Stakeholder sensitisation campaigns have also happened in the four pilot local governments, with meetings held with traditional rulers, education trade union representatives and Education Secretaries, among others. “Today, KwaraLEARN has completed academic field studies in randomly selected schools to learn about teachers’ English fluency and proficiency, pupil oral reading fluency, and foundational numeracy,” he added. Adaramaja explained that the process employed by KwaraLEARN has been systematic and scientific to achieve the desired learning outcomes. He said the decision to start the project was sequel to the critical achievements the State has earlier recorded in academics, governance, stakeholder engagements, operations, school inspection, technology, job creation, leadership and development. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com