THOUSANDS of fans sat in front of two giant screens erected at the city’s agoras – two main public open spaces – waiting earnestly for the referee’s final whistle in Trabzonspor’s Super Lig clash versus Antalyaspor at the Medical Park Stadium in Trabzon on Saturday. Trabzon’s 800,000 population had tripled days before the match, with fans flocking to the province via personal vehicles, flights and intercity buses. In addition to the sold-out Şenol Güneş Stadium, tens of thousands of fans flocked to the city’s Atatürk Square and a public garden established in Trabzonspor’s former home ground Hüseyin Avni Aker Stadium, which was demolished in 2019. Andreas Cornelius drew first blood early in the third minute and the first half ended 1-0 at the Medical Park Stadium. The second half started with Antalyaspor’s Alassane Ndao grabbing the equaliser in the 51st minute. Just five minutes later, Fredy was set to take a penalty kick. But Trabzonspor goalie Uğurcan Çakır denied him to the relief of the home fans. Six minutes after this vital save, Dorukhan Toköz gave Trabzonspor the lead back, while Haji Wright equaled score in the 80th minute for the visitors. Then Trabzonspor fans mistakenly flooded the pitch to celebrate the triumph minutes before the end of the match, but they were ordered out for the game to be completed. For the fans, the ‘long’ wait for referee Atilla Karaoglan’s final whistle was like a million years, but once it sounded, it sparked rapturous celebrations everywhere in the city located on the Black Sea coast of north-eastern Turkey, amongst the thousands of home fans inside and outside the stadium, in addition to various cities in Turkey, including capital city Istanbul. Trabzonspor, the province’s local football team, had just won the Süper Lig trophy 38 years after they last won the topflight diadem in the 1983/84 season. The draw against Antalyaspor left Trabzonspor nine points clear of second-place Fenerbahçe with three weeks left until the end of the season, with the Maroon Blues brandishing a better head-to-head record than their nearest rivals. Thousands of residents took to the streets with fireworks, flames filling up the entire streets. The city turned into a carnival zone with the excited fans celebrating the league triumph with chants, as well as ‘horon’  and ‘kolbastı’, both traditional folk dances from the Black Sea Region The trophy turned the city into an entertainment venue, but it also had a special place in the heart of one man who made it all possible with his goals, Anthony Nwakaeme, Trabzonspor’s Nigerian striker. Nwakaeme was a huge part of the team’s success this season, despite missing several games due to injury and coronavirus-related issues. The Nigerian was not born when the Black Sea Storm last won the Super Lig title, but in their title chase in the 2021/22 season, he was the club’s second highest goals scorer with 11 goals, five behind top scorer, Andreas Cornelius, who played seven games more than the Nigerian. “Thank you Trabzonspor Fans,” an excited Nwakaeme wrote on Twitter amid the supporters celebrations of the club’s heroic feat. “We said we were going to burn Samsun. Despite all the threats, we celebrated the championship in Ciftlik, the busiest place of Samsun, and then we made our convoy in Atakum. Championships were also celebrated in the surrounding provinces.” Nwakaeme joined the Turkish champions in the summer of 2018 from Hapoel Beer Sheva for a fee of €1.10m and went on to become one of the club’s key players. The 2021/22 season has been nothing but outstanding for the Nigerian striker, who added 10 assists to his 11 goals in the league, a return which betters his 2019/20 campaign, where he scored 11 goals and provided nine assists in 29 league games. The 33-year-old’s goals played a huge role in helping the club end their long trophy wait, having played second fiddle to Galatasaray, Fenerbahce and Besiktas ⁠— the Istanbul giants known as the Big Three of Turkish football – who  dominated Turkey’s topflight league for decades, collectively winning 57 of the 65 Super Lig titles on offer over 38 years. Interestingly, Trabzonspor were the first club to break the Istanbul clubs’ monopoly in winning the Turkish league when they claimed the trophy in the 1975/76 season. That started a period of dominance that saw them claim five consecutive titles, before adding another in 1983/84, thus earning the nickname ‘The Black Sea Storm.’ Ever since then they had been unable to win the trophy and only came close to winning it again on several occasions, most notably in the 2010/11, when Fenerbahçe were declared champions on goals difference in a season marred by match-fixing allegations, and in the 2019/20, when former Super Eagles captain Mikel Obi played a crucial role in their title chase that season. However, Nwakaeme will forever remain in the club’s folklore as one of the Nigerian who guided them to their first league victory after almost four decades. However, the Lagos-born forward is not the first Nigerian to don the club’s jersey. Augustine James, the late Isaac Promise, Ogenyi Onazi, and Mikel had all represented the Turkish outfit, but the striker, who is yet to renew his contract with the new champions, has left an indelible mark and will go on to become the club’s most prized Nigerian asset. Nwakaeme’s contract ends in June and after several breakdown talks, the Nigerian might leave the club and the fans with something to cherish forever, a trophy that will bring around $37.7m to the club. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com