The Federal Ministry of Aviation in conjunction with the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority and the International Civil Aviation Organisation are set to host stakeholders in the aviation industry to a global event in Abuja. The global event, which is the seventh in its series, begins on Monday (today), according to a statement by the General Manager, Public Relations, NCAA, Mr. Adurogboye Sam. The statement noted that this year’s event will engage “all participants in discussing important issues like progress made in implementing the International Civil Aviation Organisation global and regional plan, enhancement of aviation performance in all ICAO strategic objectives, key priorities for the coming years, COVID-19 aviation recovery and building back better and the outcome of the ICAO High-Level Conference on COVID – 19 (HLCC) 2021 amongst others.” The statement also stated that the Federal Government would be hosting the directors general of civil aviation authorities, aviation safety and security representatives, aviation experts of African-Indian Ocean (AFI) region member states, and other representatives and experts from international/ regional organisations.” The event is aimed at availing the directors-general of civil aviation authorities the opportunity to brainstorm and chart a course aimed at further developing the appropriate strategies and providing the necessary actions to support the enhancement of the aviation system in Africa. The signing of a Memorandum of Understanding between Nigeria and some notable countries has been listed as the highlight of the five-day event. However, the only session open to the public is the opening session holding on Monday after which delegates will break into technical sessions.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com