A lecturer in the Department of History and International Studies in  Veritas University Abuja, identified as John Adole, has been kidnapped by gunmen in Otukpo, Otukpo Local Government Area of Benue State. His driver and others in the vehicle with him were also reported to have been kidnapped. Our correspondent gathered that the lecturer travelled from Abuja to Benue for his sister’s burial when the incident happened on Sunday night. Three other persons, including a professor from the Benue State University, Makurdi, were said to have escaped being abducted during the attack. A viral video online showed two dented blood stained, Hilux vehicles at the scene without their occupants. Olikita Ekani on Facebook, wrote, “It was a terrible scene in Otukpo last night as a Veritas University, Abuja lecturer, his driver and others were abducted in Otukpo by unknown gunmen. “One professor from the Benue State University, Makurdi narrowly escaped the onslaught. “It is surprising that Otukpo (Texas City) which was once the most secured and peaceful city in Benue South, has suddenly turned into a den of kidnappers. “Kidnappings have become recurrent activities in the traditional headquarter of Idoma land as hardly could a day pass by without hearing of abductions of innocent people by unknown gunmen.” When contacted, the spokesperson for the university, Evelyn Obekpa, confirmed to our correspondent that a lecturer in the institution was abducted on Sunday night. She said, “The Head of Department of History and International relations, on returning in the evening, was kidnapped. “He had gone for his sister’s burial in Otukpo, his hometown where the incident happened. It is shocking to us.” The spokesperson for the Benue State Police Command, DSP Catherine Anene, could not be reached for comment. Several calls to her lines were not taken. She has yet to respond to the message sent to her. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com