The Assistant General Overseer of the Redeemed Christian Church of God, Pastor Johnson Odesola, has said Nigerians should be free to live in any part of the country without being molested. Condemning the untamed killings in the country, particularly religious ones, Odesola said it was time for Nigeria to be seen as a country for all and not for a certain set of people. According to a statement on Thursday, the cleric, who backed the call by the Christian Association of Nigeria for a peaceful protest against killings in the country, said Christians should not be taken for granted and must not be subjected to attack all the time. He said, “This peaceful protest is very necessary because Nigeria is a secular country, not a country with just one religion, which calls for tolerance and protection of every citizen on the part of the government. “We must be friends, whether Christians, Muslims, or people from any other religion, with one another and, more importantly, as citizens in a secular country like Nigeria. It is high time we realised that Nigeria is for everyone and not for a certain set of people. “If people from the North can come down to the South, build mosques and houses without being molested, it should not be an abomination for people in the South to go to the North and replicate the same and enjoy peaceful settlement.” “The fact that Christians are very peaceful, God-fearing, taught by God not to kill those He created in His image and accordingly eschew violence in every ramification, does not mean they should be taken for granted and be always subjected to attack.” Pastor Adebayo Adeyemo said the protest was necessary because of the rise in evil and wickedness in the country. Frowning against bloodletting, Adeyemo said, “Any country where blood is shed will be cursed, with its adverse effects on the economy and governance.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com