The Attorney General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami and Minister of Women Affairs, Pauline Tallen, were on Wednesday, present for the weekly Federal Executive Council meeting. The ministers who had earlier withdrawn their candidacy for the Kebbi State Governorship and Plateau State Senatorial seats respectively, joined the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), at the meeting held at the Council Chambers of the State House, Abuja. Though Tallen attended virtually, the Attorney General, Malami, was part of those in physical attendance. The PUNCH had earlier reported that the president, at the tail end of last week’s FEC meeting ordered cabinet members vying for various electoral offices to resign. On Friday, he held a valedictory session to bid farewell to the 10 outgoing ministers. All were in attendance except the Minister of State for Education, Chukwuemwka Nwajiuba. Ministers who have so far made a U-turn include Malami, Tallen and the Minister of Labour and Employment, Dr Chris Ngige, who was vying for the presidency. Before the meeting commenced, the Council observed a minute’s silence in honour of the former Minister of Communications under the Babangida regime, Olawole Ige, who passed on at 83. Those physically in attendance are the Vice President, Professor Yemi Osinbajo; Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Boss Mustapha; Head of the Service of the Federation, Dr. Folasade Yemi-Esan, Chief of Staff to the President, Prof Ibrahim Gambari, and National Security Adviser, Major General Babagana Munguno (retd). Others in attendance include the Ministers of Information and Culture, Lai Mohammed; Power, Abubakar Aliyu; Federal Capital Territory, Mohammed Bello; Aviation, Hadi Sirika; Communication and Digital Economy, Isa Pantami; Environment, Mohammed Abdullahi; Finance, Budget and National Planning, Zainab Ahmed; Works and Housing, Babatunde Fashola, and Foreign Affairs; Geoffrey Onyeama; Ministers of State for Health, Olorunimbe Mamora, Agric, Mustapha Shehuri and Budget and National Planning, Clem Agba. Details later… Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com