Nigeria international Alex Iwobi says the feeling of being substituted by Everton managers, following an underwhelming performance earlier in the club, has been one of his greatest fears since he joined The Toffees from Arsenal in 2019, PUNCH Sports Extra reports. Iwobi struggled for consistent form at Goodison Park and had often been criticised by the club’s fans, but Frank Lampard’s arrival in January reignited a new phase in the utility player’s career. The Super Eagles star, who turned 26 on Tuesday, has been one of the shining stars for the Toffees in recent matches, earning huge plaudits for his purposeful and energetic displays, especially for his outstanding performance against Chelsea on Sunday, when he played as a right-back for the majority of the match. Though delighted to have been given the opportunity to consistently prove himself, Iwobi, in an interview with Liverpool Echo, revealed his worst fear during his trying period. “I still can’t help, when I see someone is about to get dragged, thinking, ‘Is it going to be number 17?’ In the game, I feel I can run non-stop,” he was quoted as saying. “As soon as the final whistle goes, I am shattered and think, ‘How have I done that?’. I have been dropping on the pitch, falling on my knees or to the floor. It comes on instantly, the feeling of, ‘I am done’. “I have normally been the first one dragged off. Now, the manager has faith in my ability to run for 90 minutes, to give the same level of effort for the whole game. “It is nice when I look over and see it’s not my number. I think I have another five or ten minutes, at least, to keep battling for the team, to help us win, or come back for a draw, like against Leicester in the last home game. “It gives me a massive confidence boost and I appreciate it.” Iwobi’s huge amount of energy and off-the-ball work have been appreciated by many supporters and pundits in recent weeks and the midfielder explained that a set of blood tests conducted by the squad at the beginning of the campaign proved he could be one of the best runners in the squad. “They (tests) showed I can be one of the best runners in the team. I don’t know the specifics, I don’t understand the science, and it is something to do with lactate. Doucs (Abdoulaye Doucoure), Andros (Townsend), and I were top,” Iwobi said, as quoted by Echo.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com