The Christian Association of Nigeria in Taraba State on Sunday condemned a viral video on social media where an Islamic cleric was heard urging Muslims in the state to stand up and take over political power. In a statement issued in Jalingo and signed by the State CAN Chairman, Rev. Isaiah Magaji-Jirapye, the Christian body said it viewed the several videos being shared on the social media as calculated plots to set the stage on fire by outside forces that are not happy with the peace Taraba is enjoying. Jirapye, in the statement, noted that the state has a long-standing history of religious tolerance and peaceful coexistence between Christians and Muslims. The statement read, “The attention of the Taraba State Chapter of the Christian Association of Nigeria has been drawn to several video clips of Islamic Clerics from outside Taraba State, threatening religious war and the establishment of a sharia Islamic government in Taraba over the recent APC governorship primaries in the state in which a Christian, Senator Emmanuel Bwacha was announced the winner. “The messages of these clerics stand condemned by all reasonable individuals. We call for their immediate arrest and question why they are interested in setting up Taraba in flames. “Our tolerance has been why we are still exempted from the religious carnage ongoing in some states. We urge the APC to settle their party issues without bringing in religion. “CAN is not a partisan organisation but has observed with dismayed the threats on Christians in Taraba State and an attempt to instigate religious unrest from some Islamic Clerics from across Nigeria. “CAN in Taraba state and indeed well-meaning Nigerians are shocked that a purely political party affair could be given a religious colouration and draws such segregation capable of destabilizing the entire nation,” the statement read. The statement called on intelligence agencies and the federal government to expedite actions and apprehend and prosecute the individuals in the videos before they throw Taraba state and Nigeria into avoidable bloodshed. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com