The Governor of Ondo State, Rotimi Akeredolu, on Thursday reiterated the call for restructuring of the country, adding that it is the only way to develop the country. He also said devolution of powers must be seen as necessary for the development of the country. Akeredolu, who is also the Chairman of the Southern Governors’ Forum, stated these while reacting to the statement credited to Bauchi State Governor and presidential aspirant of the Peoples Democratic Party, Bala Mohammed, on the Western Nigeria Security Network, known as Amotekun, and the need to restructure the polity for real development. In a statement issued through his Chief Press Secretary, Mr Richard Olatunde, Akeredolu insisted that there was a need to put in place a system of administration that reflects heterogeneity. The statement read in part, “The federating units must progress from the semblance of autonomy to the recognition of their unique features which justify their existence. “All institutions must emerge as consequences of deliberative engagements designed to accommodate and serve all segments of the society. Social services become seamless and effective when governance is localised. “It, therefore, becomes anomalous and suspicious to insist on a central command structure of policing the polity. Amotekun points at the path to tread in ensuring that collaborative efforts among security agencies yield maximum protection for the citizenry. “It points at the ostensible potential of a nation-state sincerely desirous of mobilising citizens for the production of goods and services. “We are proud of our modest intervention at a most auspicious moment in the country. We enjoin all patriots to look critically into the issues bordering on the challenges faced by the country as a result of the current system. “Devolution of powers must be perceived as necessary for the development of the country. There can be no meaningful progress in a system where the federating units are treated as mere outposts for the central administration.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com