The Federal Government has said it will put an end to multiple taxations when the Lekki Deep Seaport becomes operational. Speaking during an inspection tour at the facility, the Minister of Information and Culture, Lai Muhammad, said that the government was looking at creating more jobs through the Lekki Deep Seaport and was not necessarily interested in revenue generation. He noted that the government was passionate about a conducive business environment. “The government is so passionate about the business environment; you know there is a presidential council on that. There won’t be a priority in taxing the public, neither would there be multiple taxations. So, we are quite aware of that. The decision to make this port work will determine the quality of the port. “We are looking at the bigger picture, not just a small picture of how much revenue we are going to generate from time to time, but how many more jobs we are going to create by a more liberal approach. We are looking at the rail system, which is the cheapest and more efficient means of transportation.” Mohammed said that the port would enable Nigeria to regain the maritime businesses that were lost to some West African ports. He further said that Lekki Deep Seaport would make the country take advantage of the African Continental Free Trade]e Agreement. “Beyond that, when it begins operation in the last quarter of this year, it will make it possible for Nigeria to regain the maritime business that was lost to ports in Togo, Cote d’Ivoire and Ghana. It is also a big boost to Nigeria in its quest to take advantage of the implementation of the AfCFTA.” He said, “The investment is huge: $1.53bn on fixed assets and $800mn on construction.  But the aggregate impact has been put at $361bn in 45 years, which will be over 200 times the cost of building it. In addition, it will create 169,972 jobs and bring revenue totalling $201bn to state and federal governments through taxes, royalties and duties. The direct and induced business revenue impact is estimated at $158bn, in addition to a qualitative impact on manufacturing, trade and commercial services sector.” The minister said that with the port coming on board, the nation would be a trans-shipment hub. “A major advantage we have to leverage is trans-shipment. With this port, Nigeria will become a trans-shipment hub and the revenue we are currently losing to our neighboring countries will come here. That’s big. “Also, the project is self-sufficient in required electricity. It is now ready to generate up to 10 megawatts and the total capacity is 16 megawatts. I call it a game-changer because of the impact it will have on the nation’s economy and the jobs it will create, among others.” Earlier, the Chief Executive Officer of the Port, Du Ruogang, had said that the intention was to create the port for domestic cargoes. He, nevertheless, reiterated the need for government support, especially in the area of cargo evacuation. “We don’t want to lose our revenues to the West African countries. Our target is to make Lekki Port for domestic cargo. Lekki Port will be the central port. We need support from the government and the most important thing is the cargo evacuation system. Obviously, the road connecting the port to Elakan, Epe to Lagos is not meeting the demands of the ports as regards cargo evacuation.” Reacting to this, the minister said, “I think that problem is very well taken care of by the government. We were here about a month ago to inspect the Dangote Refinery and the issue has always been on the flow of evacuation. And between the Federal Government, Lagos State government, and Dangote Group, we have, kind of, agreed on a private partnership in that regard. We are quite aware of that,” he concluded. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com