Former President of the Senate and presidential aspirant under the Peoples Democratic Party, Anyim Pius Anyim, has stated that he will stabilise Nigeria in six months, if elected President in the 2023 election. Anyim made this known while paying a courtesy visit to a chieftain of the party and former governor of Jigawa State, Sule Lamido, in the state. In a statement made available to The PUNCH on Sunday, the former Senate President pledged to stabilise the country in six months and prepare it for growth. “I promise that within the first six months of my administration, I will stabilise this country and prepare it for growth, peace and prosperity,” he told Lamido. Anyim added, “We must agree on the things that divide us. We must come to terms with what works for us. I will provide the platform to midwife this consensus. “We will all work together to make Nigeria great again. I will provide that distinctive leadership that will build consensus across the country and reconcile Nigerians.” Speaking earlier at the party secretariat to woo the delegates ahead of the primary, Anyim promised to make Jigawa an export hub of agricultural produce, even as he emphasised that Nigeria has a lot to learn from the state. “Jigawa State, besides agricultural produce, has a lot more to export to other parts of Nigeria. Jigawa is the only state in Nigeria where there is no insecurity and there is no threat of insecurity,” Anyim said. The Chairman of PDP, Jigawa State, Babandi Gumel, while welcoming Anyim to the secretariat on Thursday, described the latter as a straightforward and simple leader deserving of trust. Gumel said that not only were the 91 delegates to the PDP National Convention scheduled to hold on May 28 and 29 in Abuja present, many elders and leaders of the party were also present. The chairman described their presence as a mark of respect for and appreciation of the leadership qualities of the former Senate President. Addressing the delegates, Anyim said, “I am most delighted by the number of leaders and elders I can behold here. I sincerely feel greatly honoured by the calibre of people here present today. “I want to reemphasise that I am from Jigawa. I am a son of the soil and I have a senior brother here whose name is Sule Lamido.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com