Dear ma, I have been a big fan of yours since I came across your articles. I am a devout Catholic. I want to tell you that though I am 43 years old, I am still a virgin. I made up my mind since I was young not to sleep with any man except the man I’m married to. I have always prayed to God to keep me safe and He always hears my prayers. I have never been in a serious relationship with men, as I detest the attitude of a man trying to romance me in the name of love.  During my secondary school days, I had a problem with my legs and till now I still depend on a walking stick to move about. Despite this, I have come across a few men interested in me over time but they don’t seem sincere and I don’t go far with men trying to romance me not to talk of sex because I know what romance can turn to. I have avoided it so far and once I do that, that’s the end of any relationship. Sincerely, I don’t have any regrets that they left because I refused to yield to their lustful desire and I have been resolute in God that no matter what, I will not defile myself until God brings the right man into my life and I’m happily married to him. I hope you will keep me in your prayers ma, as I really pray to get married soon by the grace of God and have a glorious, happy and God-fearing family. Thank you ma. More grace from God. Love you ma. Antonia, 43 Dear ma, I decided to keep myself till my wedding night! I dated a Benue guy for four years and we did nothing until I met one Yoruba guy who has been harassing me for a relationship since the last two years. I didn’t want to accept his overtures because I don’t want to marry a Yoruba but I later fell for him after dating for six months then he broke up with me without reasons. After two months we were back after much pleading and he kept disturbing me for sex. The day we clocked one year- October 24, 2020, we were romancing and I thought as usual I could harden my body and avoid penetration. But he overpowered me and pushed in with full force! He knew I wasn’t ready and begged me all through November to forgive him and I said no problem though I was deeply hurt. I got deflowered at 23. I noticed I was pregnant last June and out of fear and because we were both not ready, I aborted it! After six months I took in again in December last year and I aborted again! My feelings for him are unusually strong and I guess it’s because he deflowered me. Last month, he left without saying a word! No call, no visit. I did nothing wrong and he gave my friends reasons that aren’t genuine such as “she doesn’t trust me,” “she can kill me” and the like. Now he’s back to his ex after saying there’s nothing between them! I’m so crushed! My pain is why did he trace me till he found me? Why did he come back to defile me? I can’t forgive myself for having two abortions! I’m in so much pain! I can’t forget him easily and I don’t know where to start from! Please help me before I do something silly to myself. Girls, girls, girls, Hmm…to start with my heart goes out to wonderful Antonia who’s still a virgin at 43! Wow! Just wow! I can only pray God will honour her before the end of this year with the best marriage and the best of things in life! What a lady! At an age where many girls before age 20 have slept with more men than their mothers and grandmothers combined ever slept with! I pray God glorifies her and makes her a classical example of the rewards of obedience. There’s a Yoruba proverb that says, “You shouldn’t smell what you don’t want to eat!” The second lady above has been keeping herself for marriage yet she’s been romancing some guy thinking she would always have power over her flesh only for her to end up with two abortions and a badly broken heart! How sad!!! How cruel! I imagine all she’s ever gone through from rejection, disappointments to lack of favour and many lonely nights while keeping her virginity only for it to be cunningly snatched by a satanic lover and then two abortions. Lord have mercy!!! You all had better be strong in the Lord as the devil usually gives anyone who doesn’t want to defile God’s temple a hard time! More to come on this! I invite you to follow me on Facebook –TEMILOLU OKEOWO Instagram @ Okeowotemilolu Are you still engaging in pre-marital sex? Each act devalues you! Your wonders are waiting to start. God is waiting for you to become a secondary virgin! You are most welcome on board the chastity campaign train and Girls Club is open for all girls and ladies. Please text your name, age, school or occupation and state of domicile to 07086620576.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com