Culture enthusiast and the Chief Executive Officer of Tell Africa, Gbemisola Bisi-Taiwo, speaks with TOFARATI IGE about her love for culture and other issues You are passionate about showing the African perspective of things. What is that African story you really want to tell? There are so many stories in Africa but there is a problem in the information that people have about Africa outside the continent. People in the Diaspora generally think that the people in Africa are all poverty stricken, and that some people live on trees. As a matter of fact, some even think that anybody that is black is from Africa. They don’t know that Africa is not a country but a continent. The stories we are telling have to do with the beauty of our culture and tradition. We want people around the world to understand who we are and know that good and beautiful things do come out of Africa. Why are you not telling these stories via the structured form of formal education? I believe it is easier for people to learn when they are not in a structured environment. For instance, in the case of children born by Nigerian parents but living outside the country, their parents could want them to study Nigeria but not live there. If one shows them movies (about Nigeria), feed them Nigerian food, and show them the beauty of our fabrics. If they see it as a way of life, it would become a part of them. A lot of people love African culture but they don’t have in-depth knowledge of it. There are so many beautiful parts of our culture, even in the way we greet our elders. That was why we thought it was important, especially now that many Yoruba children cannot speak the language. We have to find a way to bring back all the values we have lost to civilisation. That is what we have taken upon ourselves to do, and we intend to do it all over the world. We will go to different places to showcase African culture. During the forthcoming Tell Africa International Art and Crafts Festival, there will be exhibitions of different things, including fashion. Fuji musician, Sule Adio (Atawewe), will be performing. Other musicians such as Paul Play Dairo, and the mass choir of Akorin Oodua, will also be on hand to thrill guests. The Akorin Oodua choir was formed by the Ooni of Ife, Oba Adeyeye Ogunwusi. What else is to be expected from the festival? We will be telling the African story the way it should be told— in a beautiful way to celebrate our beautiful people. The event, which comes up between June 23 and 29, 2022, was first held in 2019 in Dublin, Ireland. In 2020 and 2021, we could not hold it physically because of the COVID-19 pandemic, but it was done virtually. This year, we are returning to the physical festival. How easy has it been to promote African fashion beyond the shores of the continent? I have lived in Ireland for over 17 years and the Irish people have received us well. They are welcoming people. However, it has been difficult to break into their system, though what needs to be done has to be done. In Ireland, we don’t see African materials in stores. So, what stops us from bringing that into the marketplace? We have limited space for now but I believe we can create it ourselves because there is an enabling environment. The government of Ireland is doing very well as a matter of fact, so there is nothing stopping us. Immediately after the festival, there will be something called the Nigerian-Ireland Investment Summit, where many of the exhibitors coming for Tell Africa can actually get partners. They could also get opportunities for transfer of technology. What are your educational qualifications? After my secondary education, I went to The Polytechnic, Ibadan, where I bagged a Ordinary National Diploma in Mass Communication. After that, I studied Accounting, though not by choice. I actually wanted to study Law but because I did not meet up with the cut-off marks required for it for three consecutive years, I decided to take up accounting. And, I successfully did that with a degree of second class upper. When I was about to finish that course, I took another Unified Tertiary Matriculation Examination because I was bent on studying Law. Ithen gained admission to study Law at the Lagos State University. I then travelled abroad and finished my law study at the University of Wales. I also did a Masters and a PhD in Law. My specialty is intellectual property rights. My master’s was in Maynooth University in Ireland and the same school I got my PhD done. I’m done with my thesis but I have not done my viva but I love culture. Why are you so passionate about promoting culture? It has to do largely with my parents and the upbringing I had. My father, Bisi Taiwo, loves culture so much, and at a point, he was the Commissioner for Culture and Tourism in Ondo State. He was also the Commissioner for Education in the state at another point. So, loving education and culture is something I got from home. While growing up, my dad exposed me to many things. As a civil servant, he was constantly transferred to work in different places, (and the family will go with him). There were times we would travel to our hometown, Oke Igbo, just because we wanted to watch the egungun festival, which is usually so interesting. Whenever I visit Ile-Ife, Osun State, and people see me as someone from outside the country that cannot speak Yoruba, I speak the language to them and they are always shocked. Aside from my own dialect, there are other dialects in Nigeria that I can speak. There is hardly any party I will have that I would not invite cultural troops to perform. During my mum’s burial in 2021, there were about 30 cultural troops in attendance from all over Nigeria. That is how much I love my culture. Do you think being more in-tune with culture can correct the ills in society? We have wonderful Nigerian youths. I don’t think that Nigerian youths are lazy; rather, they are creative people. I think they are doing very well but I also believe they can do better if given the right opportunities. The ills in society started a long time ago. I still wonder when the young will grow in Nigeria because the elderly people have been at the helm of affairs since they were in their thirties. I believe culture can help salvage the present situation. When politicians are getting into office, they should swear by African gods. Let them leave the Bible alone. They should use the cutlass because we believe that that will be more effective. Let them swear the kinds of oath our culture provides for, then we will see the people that would do something wrong. In the olden days, people were more honest. One would not need to stay with one’s wares when selling things. Customers would drop the correct payment for goods even if there is no one there to watch them. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com