A governorship aspirant of the Peoples Democratic Party in Oyo State, Dr Hazeem Gbolarumi, has condemned the Wednesday governorship primary election which Governor Seyi Makinde was declared to have won. Gbolarumi had complained when he was called to address his delegates that hoodlums allegedly loyal to the governor attacked his delegates and chased them away from the venue. Speaking with our correspondent on Friday, he said the last had not been heard of the primary election. He said, “Can we call that a primary election? Authentic delegates were beaten and chased away. The governor contested against himself. I will consult with our party leaders and elders to know what next to do but I don’t need to go to court and I will not defect.” But three of the aspirants that contested for the PDP ticket for Ibadan North-East/Ibadan South-East Federal Constituency at the House of Representatives said they would seek redress in court. The three aspirants, Deji Aboderin, Dr Kazeem Olasupo and Niyi Aborisade said the Deputy National Chairman of the PDP, Ambassador Taofeek Arapaja; and the serving lawmaker representing the constituency, Abass Adigun, aka Agboworin, were present when armed hoodlums attacked them and chased them away from the venue of the primary. Aboderin said, “Hon Arapaja was there and in his presence those thugs were attacking me and they said if I did not leave the venue they would kill me. “We are going to challenge it in court if they should impose anybody on us.” Aborisade also said the three aggrieved aspirants would challenge the outcome of the exercise in court. He said, “We were not allowed to participate in the election. It is a big shame that things are happening like this under the governor who we think should do better. “This is not what the Electoral Act stipulates that should be done. If there would be consensus, all of us have to sign. There was no signature. Nothing took place, so I don’t know how they could just raise his hands. He was not validly elected and this would be challenged in the law court.” Olasupo, who also spoke in the same vein, condemned the exercise, vowing that the outcome would not be allowed to stand.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com