The Lagos State Police Command has paraded six suspects linked to the death of David Sunday, the sound engineer who was allegedly lynched by suspected motorcyclists in the Lekki area of the state. The Commissioner of Police, Abiodun Alabi, said the suspects killed David who was called to mediate in a crisis. Alabi said the suspects would be charged to court. “On May 12, 2022, around 6:30pm, at Studio 24, Lekki, Lagos, an Okada rider identified as Dahiru had a quarrel with his passengers, Frank Olatunji and Philip Balogun, over the bike fare. “In the heat of the argument, Frank Olatunji and Philip Balogun invited one David Sunday to mediate only for Dahiru and his cohorts to violently attack, kill him, and set him ablaze. “A total of six suspects – Dahiru Ayuba, Susan Moses, Christopher Dauda, Joseph Tella, Chigozie Anthony, and Sunday Azi, have been arrested. Suspects will be charged to court after the investigation,” he added. Meanwhile, a yet-to-be-identified driver has delivered arms to a man, Aji Augustine, who was expecting to receive food items sent by his mother to him in Lagos. It was learnt that Augustine’s mother, who lives in Cross River State, sent the food items to her son through the driver but on getting to the Ibeju Lekki area of Lagos, the driver was said to have mistakenly handed a sack belonging to another person to Augustine. Augustine was said to have rushed to the nearest police station to report and hand over the guns to policemen for investigation after he opened the sack and reportedly saw seven guns in it. The Commissioner of Police, while addressing journalists on Friday, said a thorough investigation led to the arrest of one Joseph Ashiwobel, who dispatched the sack from Calabar to Lagos. He noted that during interrogation, the suspect confessed to the crime, and led policemen to arrest two of his buyers, Rasheed Ogunbade, 39, and Aladeokin Ahmad, 38. Alabi added, “During interrogation, he confessed that he had sold many guns to his customers in Lagos and he led operatives to arrest two of his buyers, Rasheed Ogunbade, 39, and Aladeokin Ahmad, 38. Also, one locally-made shotgun bought from Joseph Ashiwobel was recovered. Investigation is still ongoing to apprehend other fleeing suspects to recover more of the guns he had sold to people in Lagos.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com