The chairman of the Independent National Electoral Commission, Prof. Mahmood Yakubu, and members of his team on Sunday commenced what the commission described as “readiness assessment” visit to Ekiti State ahead of the state governorship election scheduled for June 18, 2022. According to INEC, Yakubu and his team, will during the visit meet with stakeholders and witness the Bimodal Voter Accreditation System mock exercise. Meanwhile, the candidate of the Action Peoples Party, Adeyinka Alli, has said that the continued silence of INEC on including his name in the list of candidates for the governorship election despite court order is worrisome. Alli, who said the party was in the contest with youth agenda to dislodge the governing All Progressives Congress and entrench good governance in the state, cautioned INEC against giving room for fake news through not speaking up. The governorship candidate, who spoke in Ado Ekiti on Saturday during a rally organised by APP Women Wing, titled, “Ekiti Women Support Adeyinka Alli for Governor, Christianah Olatawura for Deputy”, said the change of candidate, which saw him as the new candidate followed due process just as court order to that effect had been secured and forwarded to INEC. He said, “Ekiti women and youths are using this opportunity of this rally to pass the message across to INEC, some people are still doubting because INEC has not come out openly to effect this change. INEC has accepted all we forwarded to it. There is a court order in place. “INEC has taken our court order, they are effecting it. What we want is – INEC should come out openly, hold a press conference to address it so that people will know that INEC still remains a good commission as it is.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com