Peoples Democratic Party candidates for the three Senatorial Districts of Kwara State have emerged after the primary elections held in the respective districts on Monday. All the three candidates emerged through consensus arrangement and affirmation by the party delegates at the primaries supervised by officials from the Independent National Electoral Commission. In Kwara Central, a journalist and former Minister of Sports and Youth Development, Bolaji Abdullahi, emerged as the candidate to contest the Senatorial District seat election. He is entering the race with intimidating credentials having served as the State Commissioner for Education and Special Adviser to former Governor Bukola Saraki on strategy, as well as the National Publicity Secretary of the PDP. Also in Kwara North, a former Commissioner for Local Government and Chieftaincy Affairs, Alhaji Isa Bawa also clinched the ticket to contest for the Senatorial seat. The PUNCH also gathered that a former Senator, Rafiu Ibrahim, who served in the 8th Senate under Senate President, Dr Bukola Saraki’s tenure, secured the ticket to contest the seat again for Kwara South Senatorial District. The party kicked off its primary elections for aspirants eyeing elective positions in the 2023 general elections on Sunday, with primaries for the House of Representatives and the State House of Assembly. Meanwhile, a 2019 governorship aspirant of the PDP, Alhaji Ibrahim Ajia, emerged at the party’s primary election for Asa/Ilorin West Federal Constituency in the House of Representatives. Results from Ilorin East/Ilorin South constituency of the House of Representative’s primary showed that a former member of the House of Representatives, Hon Wahab Issa polled 36 votes to beat three other contestants in the primary election. Hon Hassan Oyeleke former majority leader in the Kwara House of Assembly emerged through consensus for Ifelodun/Offa/Oyun Federal House of Representatives seat while Dare Bankole emerged through consensus for Irepodun/Isin/Ekiti/Oke-Ero Federal House of Representatives seat. Idris Musa Buko emerged through consensus for Baruten/Kaiama Federal Constituency and Bello Olatunde Emmanuel emerged through consensus for Edu/Moro/Patigi Federal Constituency. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com