The apex Igbo socio-cultural organisation, Ohanaeze Ndigbo, rose from a meeting of its Imeobi, the highest decision making organ of the body, on Thursday, insisting that it is the turn of the South-East to produce president in 2023. This was contained in an eight-point communiqué issued at the end of the meeting, held at Ohanaeze National Secretariat in Enugu, and read by the group’s Secretary General, Ambassador Okey Emuchay. Ohanaeze, also, called on the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), to release detained leader of the Indigenous People of Biafra, Nnamdi Kanu, and all Igbo youths detained in various cells across the country without trial. According to Emuchay, the meeting deliberated on a wide range of issues including the January 10, 2021 Ohanaeze election held at Dan Anyiam Stadium, Owerri-Imo State; insecurity in the South-East; 2023 presidency; the need for people of the region to obtain their Permanent Voters Cards as well as the Alaigbo Stabilisation Fund. The communiqué partly read, “After exhaustive deliberations on these issues, the following resolutions were reached: that there is the need to redouble our efforts towards the ongoing voters registration exercise by sensitising our people on the importance of the exercise and getting their PVCs where they reside. “That we condemn in its entirety the worsening security situation in the South-East and call on all Igbos to put all hands on the deck to halt the situation. “Ohanaeze strongly believes that the release of Nnamdi Kanu and other Igbo youths in detention is the first crucial step towards restoring peace and security in the South-East. We are convinced that the Nnamdi Kanu issue can only be resolved through dialogue. “Ndigbo are irrevocably committed to a Nigerian President from the South-East Zone in 2023. “That Imeobi Ohanaeze hereby empowers the President-General to constitute the Political Action Committee amongst others that will achieve the desired results in all the issued raised at the Imeobi.” Earlier in his address, the Ohanaeze’s President-General, Ambassador George Obiozor, had expressed optimism that Igbo nation would come out stronger from the current turmoil.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com