Following the taking over of the initial orientation camp built by the Gombe State Government under the Ibrahim Dankwambo’s administration to serve as a de-radicalisation, rehabilitation camp for repentant Boko Haram members at Malam Sidi in Kwami Local Government Area, the current administration of Muhammadu Yahaya has commenced work on another structure. Speaking during an inspection visit, the Secretary to the Gombe State Government, Prof. Ibrahim Njodi, said youth development and empowerment were cardinal mandates of the Yahaya’s administration He revealed that the ongoing construction would serve as Citizenship and Leadership Training Centre; National Youths Service Corps orientation camp, in Boltongo, Yamaltu Deba LGA. Njodi, who expressed satisfaction with the pace and quality of work, urged the team handling the project to maintain the tempo. He said, “despite the attendant challenges in governance, Governor Muhammadu Inuwa Yahaya has shown commitment to improving lots of the youths who are not only the future of the state but formed a greater number of the population.” Njodi further explained that when completed, the centre would serve the dual purposes of providing citizenship and leadership training for the teeming youth as well as accommodating the NYSC orientation camp, having lost the first one to the Federal Government. The construction work comprising hostels, classrooms, staff quarters, and sporting facilities had reached advanced stages of completion. Conducting the SSG and his entourage, the site Engineer, Aminu Mohammed commended the foresight of the Governor in setting up the centre which he said would be delivered in the next few weeks. Also speaking, a member of the Taskforce of the project Major Musa Mahdi (retd.), said their presence and supervision had given no room for compromise in standards and specifications. Mahdi, however, informed the SSG that based on observations, there would be a need for additional works, and he appealed for timely approvals to ensure timely completion of the project. On his part, the representative of the state office of the NYSC, Emmanuel Oibe, appreciated the State Government for coming up with the project, explaining that when completed it would rank among the best orientation camps in the country given the plan, work quality and facilities being proposed for the camp. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com