A former Minister of State for Education and presidential aspirant on the platform of the All Progressives Congress, Chukwuemeka Nwajiuba, in this interview with DEBORAH TOLU-KOLAWOLE speaks on the clamour for a president from the South-East and the APC presidential primary Why are you running for President of Nigeria? I have decided to run for the position of Nigerian President because I have examined what our country needs at this time based on the appreciation of the challenges we are currently facing. We have issues ranging from security to the economy and social issues. Following a careful appreciation of these issues, our close to 24 years of continuous democracy, and plan to move into a new dispensation, I have come to realise that it would be nice to bring in the experience I have gathered over the past 30 years of active politicking since 1992 and the need to build on the solid foundation that has been laid and implemented upon in the last seven years by the President, Muhammadu Buhari. You ran for governor on the ANPP (All Nigeria Peoples Party) platform in 2003, 2007 and 2011. Why do you think you can win the presidential election? Presently, the challenges in the country will require someone who will speak to all the demographics. We are at the point where there is a need for national cohesion. That is the reason why I am positive that all the leaders in the APC not just the President, but all the leaders including all the current aspirants would probably take me as their preferred person. It would appear that I’m probably the best person to speak to 80 to 90 percent demographics of the country. My candidacy at 55 will be speaking to youths more than every other person on the field. I am the only person who has been and still is a member of the judiciary, was a member of the executive in my capacity as a former minister, and a former member of the legislature. I have been a practising lawyer for 34 years, I went to the legislature and from there to the executive. Is it true that President Buhari is supporting your candidacy? It is clear that the President has given his go-ahead to many people to run for the presidency and that is because he wants the best for Nigeria and the only way he can do that is to get as many people to run from different fields. If you understand the President’s love for the country, you will realise that he will always do what is best for the country. Being a father of all, it will be very difficult for him to say people should not run but to think or say that he has a preferred person is something I cannot confirm. I understand that he would choose from or he would be interested in all of us and whomever God chooses. As minister of state for education between 2019 and 2022, ASUU (Academic Staff Union of Universities) went on strike for over 12 months. How will you tackle this recurring issue as President? Everything that ASUU has canvassed is for the good of the entire system. I have said repeatedly in my capacity as minister. Also, I fully apologise to Nigerian students for the hardship they are going through, I also apologise to my own children, two of whom are still in Nigerian public universities. It is also important for me to note that I have benefitted from public universities. I was at the Imo State University for my undergraduate degree, the University of Lagos for my master’s degree, and my doctoral degree at the University of Jos. The issues that ASUU raised have transcended many administrations and therefore it is clear that we cannot continue to agree and disagree. I have worked out a funding plan for the universities that the Federal Government owns. There is a need to have a board of trustees for universities. By so doing, the governing council operates differently from the board of trustees. In so doing, the government only has to interface with the board of trustees. We already have a template which if you read the University Autonomy Act because up till now universities are essentially autonomous because even the council can act wholly by appointing Vice-Chancellors. They do not need approval from Abuja. They can hire and fire their lecturers. All that the government does is pay. Now, since the government is the one paying, they were placed on the IPPIS (Integrated Payroll and Personnel information system)platform which was designed by the government but they are now insisting that they have their personal platform. Now, why is the government insisting on IPPIS? The Government feels that since it is not involved in the hiring processes, there is a need to know the number of individuals it is paying and why they are being paid. Another issue is earned allowances. Now, lecturers paid by the government may in different proportion have done extra -work for example, supervising post graduate students and all, they come up with some percentages for the government to pay. Now, the government does not know these people, the government did not work out these percentages. Looking at some of these issues, you will realise that it is time to grant universities full financial autonomy so that all of these things that are continuous and repeated will stop being problems and will be treated locally. All universities do not have uniform problems. For example, state universities are going on strike along with federal universities, what do they gain, state governments control state universities so why are they fighting alongside federal universities. However, I know that my elder brother, Mallam Adamu Adamu will continue to work out the necessary modalities. We have not seen you doing nationwide consultations with delegates like Tinubu, Osinbajo and Amaechi. What then is your strategy? It is very clear that people have different approaches to things and my mother taught us something before you make garri you look at the size of the soup so you will know if the soup will be enough for the garri. I have not had the luxury of former governors who own jets and controlled state resources at some points. It is acceptable for people who have those forms of resources to throw them around. However, we have been working with delegates who will vote at the convention. In every state, we have a local working committee known as the LWC made up of people who are interested in our campaigns and they have been engaging with our delegates. What mode of presidential primaries will you prefer? Consensus, indirect or direct primaries? Anyone the party chooses to go after. Each one has its advantages and disadvantages. If you bring delegates together and you tell them to embrace an indirect primary, Abuja will be turned into a dollar bazaar because people will try to get as much voting power with lots of resources.  If you look at what happened with the train attack, some of the delegates who were going back to their states were attacked maybe because the bandits thought that many of the people who were in the train were returning from the convention and were loaded with dollars. Similarly, because of the timeline given by INEC, the party may not be able to conduct direct primaries. Also, the idea of consensus may not be accepted by everyone. But I know that the NWC is working towards the best mode of primaries that will avoid rancour, loss of lives, and disintegration.  You are from Imo state which is the most affected by secessionist agitations. How do you plan on ending this as President? I mentioned that one of the biggest selling points is not just about my competence everyone will agree that I am competent and I have enough capacities and leadership skills, but you can have all these skills but you may not be the answer to the challenges in the environment at a particular time. I spoke about my candidacy being able to speak to many demographics. It also includes this demographic. Your Governor, Hope Uzodinma has endorsed the Senate President, Ahmed Lawan for President. How do you plan on winning the primary without your governor’s support? I think you misunderstand the governor. He has over time advocated a south eastern presidency. He has done speeches trying to look for help. He is part of the growing list of people who are disappointed in what our brothers in the South-West may be doing. They did not think that having come together as Southern governors to agree that all political parties must move their tickets to the south, their brothers in the South-West who are aware of the fact that Obasanjo did 8 years as president, my brother Yemi Osinbajo almost concluding his eight years as vice president would still be putting their hands in the pie and then causing this misunderstanding. So they are saying that if the South-West is insisting on taking forms, they might as well talk to other zones to take forms too. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com