Niger Delta former freedom fighter and High Priest of Egbesu deity in the Gbaramatu Kingdom, High Chief Government Ekpemupolo, popularly known as Tompolo, has refuted rumours making the rounds that he is dead, saying he is hale and hearty. PUNCH Metro gathered that Tompolo cleared the air in a reaction to online media reports that a certain Tompolo was killed in Ogbia, Bayelsa State, during the Peoples Democratic Party’s House of Assembly and Senate primaries. A statement issued by his media adviser, Paul Bebenimibo, copies of which were made available to journalists in Warri Tuesday night, described the insinuations as malicious and urged the public to disregard it. The statement noted that the purported story has nothing to do with High Chief Tompolo, insisting that the former freedom fighter is “hale and hearty” and in good spirit. Bebenimibo hinted that Tompolo is praying for peace in the country as the nation prepares to undergo political transition in 2023 and willing to contribute in many ways to the growth, unity and progress of Nigeria. The statement partly read, “The attention of High Chief Government Ekpemupolo, alias Tompolo, has been drawn to an online report that one Tompolo was killed in Ogbia during the Peoples Democratic Party primaries for House of Reps and Senate. “For the avoidance of doubt, this story has nothing to do with High Chief Government Ekpemupolo, alias Tompolo. He is hale, hearty and doing well by God’s grace. “The general public should know that High Chief Government Ekpemupolo is a leader of the masses and will continue to speak for the masses. He is in high spirits, hoping that God Almighty will help our great country to transit successfully to another government come 2023. “He is praying for peace and stability of this country and is always willing to contribute his own quota to the development of this country socially, economically and otherwise. “He urged the general public to disregard the malicious online report of his death.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com