The Ogun State Elders Advisory Council has adopted Governor Dapo Abiodun for second term in office. The EAC endorsed Abiodun at a meeting held on Friday at the Oba’s Complex, Abeokuta, the capital of the state. Led by Chief Olu Okuboyejo, the group unanimously endorsed Abiodun’s second term bid, claiming he had “sterling performance and re-engineered public good in the nooks and crannies of Ogun State.” The spokesperson for the All Progressives Congress in Ogun State, Tunde Oladunjoye, in a statement on Friday disclosed that the motion for Abiodun’s adoption was moved by a former deputy governor of Ogun State, Senator Adegbenga Kaka (Ogun East) and it was supported by Senators Olu Agemo (Ogun West) and Segun Sowunmi (Ogun Central). The senators lauded Abiodun’s good. Responding to the endorsement, the governor thanked the elders profusely for the endorsement and promised never to take them for granted. He said, “I didn’t get to know about this meeting until a couple of hours ago. I want to assure you that I sincerely appreciate you and will not take you for granted. I must thank my team, from my deputy governor to the Speaker, Secretary to the State Government, Judiciary, and the civil service. One can only be good as one’s team. I am really grateful to my good team. I also thank the media for your balanced reporting, while hoping that we shall continue to enjoy your robust support in the years ahead.” In an earlier speech, Okuboyejo remarked that “Prince Dapo Abiodun is a good example of Omoluwabi. The rare selling points for this administration are confirmation that projects inherited from previous administrations have been completed and upgraded where necessary.” He said, “We cannot but commend the increase in Ease of Doing Business index that has significantly boosted foreign and indigenous investment in our dear state. The governor has shown himself as a numero uno marketer of our Gateway State and the result is evidently clear in the rise in our internally generated revenue. “On this note, and on behalf of all members of the Governor’s Elders Advisory Council, I hereby proclaim the endorsement of the elders for His Excellency, Prince Dapo Abiodun, to serve for a second term in office commencing from May, 2023.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com