The Peoples Redemption Party has accused the governments of Sokoto and Zamfara States of negligence and a “poor sense of purpose” over the non-participation of the students in the 2022 West African Senior School Certificate Examination. The party, in a press statement signed by the Chairman, Bello Falalu, on Saturday, said that Governors Aminu Tambuwal of Sokoto State and Bello Mattawalle of Zamfara state did not prioritise education because they were insensitive to the plight of the people and were more concerned about actualising their individual political ambitions. The PRP urged the governments to enable the participation of the students of the states for the forthcoming WASSCE while also providing quality education in order to help curb the moral and insecurity challenges in the states. The statement read in part, “The importance of education cannot be overemphasized as it is the backbone of any sustainable development, true civilisation, peace, and progress. “It is only through education the security and prosperity of the posterity can be safeguarded and guaranteed. Thus, being unconcerned with the education of the children of the masses by the governments of Sokoto and Zamfara States implies lack of vision and a poor sense of purpose. It is unarguable that education is the most potent weapon against insecurity. “If social unrest, tribal clashes, kidnapping, banditry, terrorism, and bigotry will be stopped, government at all levels must give education utmost priority. It must also provide job opportunities for the people. “It is most dismal that the Zamfara State governor that has no funds to register the children of the masses for WAEC could afford to buy and distribute 260 luxury cars to traditional rulers for selfish political reasons. “Education in Sokoto and Zamfara suffers backwardness because the interest of the governors ruling those states centre on the actualisation of their ambitions, not the liberation of the public from shackles of ignorance. “Neglecting the educational sector of the states is a misplacement of priorities which comes with heinous consequences more destructive than a cluster of atomic bombs. “We, therefore, call on the ruling governments to provide quality education at all levels to curb the prevailing moral decadence and insecurity that have been bedeviling our country.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com