The outgoing Director-General of the National Youth Service Corps, Major General Shuaibu Ibrahim, has described the outbreak of COVID-19 as the most trying moment in his life, saying he thought NYSC would crash during his tenure. He, however, said that he came, saw and conquered. Ibrahim, who stated this in an interview with The PUNCH also pleaded with his successor, Brig. General Mohammed Fadah, and the National Assembly to conclude the process for the President to sign the NYSC TrustFund into law for implementation. He said, “The fight against COVID-19 was the most trying moments because it was as if the NYSC was crashing on my head So, that is why we had to put on our thinking cap; the last stream was about passing out when we resumed orientation camp and that is why Nigerians got to know the importance of NYSC because we were getting calls, letters from both the public and the private sectors, that they don’t have corp members, that all their members have passed out. “So, what is the problem? What do we do? So I had to explain, that when we resumed our orientation then we can get more but I am happy now that things are being stabilized again. “To me, I believe that I came, I saw and I conquered, the rest is there for history to judge. “My only regret is that the NYSC Trust Fund that I have followed through and along with civil society groups has not come to fruition before I am leaving. “So, I appeal that my successor will follow through and I also appeal to the National Assembly to conclude the process and Mr President to sign the thing to law, so that for implementation. And like I have said earlier, once this thing is done it is like NYSC is starting all over again, that is the way I look at it.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com