The House of Representatives’ Ad Hoc Committee on the State of Refineries in Nigeria has said it is compulsory for the Group Managing Director of the Nigerian National Petroleum Company Limited, Mele Kyari, to appear before it on Tuesday (today). The committee had on April 21, 2022, summoned Kyari; the Minister of State for Petroleum Resources, Timipre Sylva, and the management of Nigeria’s refineries. Non-appearance by the stakeholders for the second time had botched the investigative hearing of the committee scheduled for March 31, 2022, forcing the panel to summon the officials three weeks after. The committee, which condemned invitees for allegedly shunning a series of invitations to its investigative hearing, threatened to invoke legislative powers against them. The PUNCH, however, obtained a copy of a letter from Kyari to the committee, requesting another time to appear before the panel. The GMD’s letter, which was dated April 22, 2022, and addressed to the Chairman, was titled ‘Re: Rescheduled Interactive Session on the State of Refineries in the Country.’ Kyari wrote, “The above subject matter refers. The leadership of the NNPC recognises and appreciates the importance of the oversight functions of the National Assembly. As a responsible corporate organisation, we would do everything to support your esteemed committee and indeed the National Assembly of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, in the exercise of its constitutional responsibilities. “However, I will be unavailable to attend the interactive session on the rescheduled date of 28th April, 2022, as I would be out of the country on a prescheduled engagement. Honourable Chairman, I hereby request that you kindly provide an alternative date in the second week of May to enable my appearance before your esteemed committee. Please accept the assurances of my highest regards and consideration.” The Chairman of the committee, Mr Ganiyu Johnson, in his response to the GMD of NNPC, via a letter dated April 26, 2022, with Reference Number NASS/9HR/ADHC/HR.22/01/2022/51, asked Kyari to appear on Tuesday (Today). Titled ‘Rescheduled Investigative Hearing,’ the letter read in part, “Sequel to our letter dated 22nd April 2022, the committee again writes to inform you that due to the upcoming holidays, the investigative hearing has been rescheduled to now hold on 10th May, 2022. “You are therefore reminded to submit to the committee all documents and information as earlier requested. For any enquiry, please contact the Clerk to the Committee. “The investigative hearing is now rescheduled as follows: Date: Tuesday, 10th May 2022. Time: 1pm. Venue: Conference Room 019, House of Representatives, National Assembly Complex, Abuja. “Attendance is mandatory, there shall be no representation by proxy as your cooperation is highly solicited, please. You are requested to treat this invitation as of utmost importance and in the national interest of Nigeria.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com