The Catholic Archbishop of Abuja Diocese, Ignatius Kaigama, on Sunday expressed concern over the rampant way workers at all levels resort to strikes to push home their demands. According to him, such a trend under successive governments was embarrassing. The cleric, in his May Day sermon, delivered at Mogadishu Military Cantonment in Abuja, affirmed the dignity of labour and urged the government to not only create employment opportunities for young people, but also engage in fruitful dialogue with labour unions According to him, such dialogues should be held with a view to mitigate the damage of frequent industrial actions to Nigeria’s educational system and economic development. He said, “As we celebrate Workers’ Day today (Sunday), we affirm the dignity of labour and ask the Lord to bless the work of our hands. “We urge the government to be more committed to creating job opportunities for the youths who do not have to know influential persons to get jobs. “That even those employed have to always resort to strikes to push home their demands is embarrassing. “Government should always sit in meaningful dialogue with Labour Unions, because repeated strikes such as by ASUU and other labour groups do a lot of damage to our educational system and economy.” He, however, urged all Nigerians not to be tired of praying for the safety, welfare and progress of the country. Kaigama said, “Prayer is what we have to offer for those right now in the hands of terrorists in the bush, and we pray also that God will inspire the concerned authorities to provide all that is required for our security men to fight those crimes that bring so much pain and agony to families and individuals. “While acknowledging that God is our security, we must all be security-conscious. We invoke the Holy Spirit to help us to continue to be resilient and to bear witness to the risen Jesus, who lives and reigns forever and ever.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com