Some youths and concerned members of human rights groups, civil society, and legal organisations in Abuja, have unanimously condemned the demolition of the properties and house of ex-Tonto Dike’s lover, Joseph Egbri, popularly known as Kpokpogri, of Guzape Abuja. The PUNCH had reported why the Federal Capital Territory Administration demolished a building owned by Egbri on Saturday. Kpokpogri, an ex-lover to actress Tonto Dikeh, had on Saturday alleged that his building at Guzape worth over N700m was unlawfully demolished by the Federal Capital Development Authority without notice. In a statement issued by a group, Justice league of Nigeria, signed by its Abuja Chairman, Jude Vodah, on Monday, titled “Compensate Joseph Egbri, popularly known as Prince Kpokpogri or expect mass action in 7 days: Abuja youths warn FCT minister”, the group said, “these attacks which started in February 2022, and repeated continuously in May 2022, have left scores injured, hospitalised while rendering Prince Kpokpogri homeless. “These attacks and demolitions, continuing with the tacit approval of the minister of the FCT, Hon. Musa Bello, constitute a gross violation of fundamental human rights. “We condemn these infringements in very strong terms, and call on the Federal Government to take immediate steps to redress these injustices by compensating, resettling, and rehabilitating the displaced person without further ado.” The group noted that the minister should show how a mansion on a hill inside an estate was built on the highway. “He should also prove that the house wasn’t approved by the ministry of Federal capital development Authority. “Why was there no prior notice before the demolition?” The statement read. The statement read further, “The recurrent invasion of Prince Kpokpogri and the accompanying demolitions are characteristically ruthless and bloody, executed with the active connivance of security agencies, especially the Nigerian Police Force and the Nigerian Security and Civil Defense Corps (NSCDC).” According to the group, no safety measures are ever adopted during the demolitions to protect the children, visitors, the staff, and the most vulnerable members of the house, leading to physical injury, loss of documents, properties, and livelihoods. It added that “the government has failed or refused to communicate to Prince Kpokpogri and concerned civil society organisations, the reasons for these attacks, until last Saturday, May 14, 2022.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com