Earlier this week, the Nigerian Railway Corporation announced that it will resume services on the Abuja to Kaduna rail route next Monday, May 23. The operation of the corporation on that route, it will be recalled, was suspended ‘’indefinitely’’ since March 29, the day after armed bandits stormed passengers travelling on that route, killing at least eight of them, wounding some and carting some off to captivity close to 50. Since then, a few of those taken captive by the terrorists have been released while the majority languish in the den of the bandits. Understandably, relations of those taken captive had protested recently the plan of the NRC to commence services at a time when their relations are still vegetating in the hands of the terrorists. A spokesperson of the captives’ relations lamented what appears to be amnesia on the part of the railway authorities and the Ministry of Transportation. They went further to allege that in spite of the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd)’s instruction that the railway authorities should open a situation room to inform family members of the captives, on a regular basis, about the progress of the rescue effort, nothing of the sort had been carried out. The family members said there has been very little communication between the railway authorities and themselves and that they have been kept in the dark concerning goings on around their captured relatives. As a result of the communication gap, they threatened at a recent press conference that they would disrupt any attempt by the corporation to resume transportation services. It is difficult not to empathise with these Nigerians who have been thrown into disarray, panic and considerable anxiety as a result of the terrorists’ attack and capture of their loved ones. On the face of it, the resumption of train operations on that route ought to bring joy to many who for fear of being murdered by terrorists in the course of road travel had taken refuge in travelling by rail. As recently as Tuesday this week, to give an example, devastating raids were carried out by terrorists on the road route between Abuja and Kaduna, leading to scores of passengers reportedly losing their lives or ending up in captivity. That being so, the reopening of another window should have been a source of relief; unfortunately, however, it is not. Why is this so? Partly because the statement by the NRC reads more like a commercial advertorial concerned mainly with clients of the corporation, which it described as its ‘’valued customers,’’ than with the travails of those who were kidnapped by the bandits as well as relations of those who lost their lives and the many who remain in captivity. In that vein, the corporation, which claimed to have improved its services in the area of safety, enjoined its prospective passengers ‘’to cooperate with the NRC in order to enjoy improved service delivery, safety and comfort.” In a situation such as this, nonetheless, matters ought not to have been addressed so glibly. To take an instance, considering that the March 28 incident is not the first of its kind on that route, and given the enormity of the assault and the persistent ordeal of those kidnapped, an uptick in assurance, as well as demonstration of empathy, are required in the place of a bland commercial announcement that neither assures anyone or shows a human face by sympathising with the afflicted. To bring the point home, after the controversy over the much-criticised efforts of the former Minister of Transportation, Mr Rotimi Amaechi, to purchase digital equipment for the safety of passengers. Pretty little has been told to the public concerning what steps have been taken to upgrade the safety of passengers. Naturally, therefore, lingering questions remain: Questions such as what new safety equipment has been purchased? Has this safety equipment been tested to ascertain its reliability and a related matter, have test runs been conducted by the NRC in order to determine if their operations are now bandit attacks proof? Had the corporation carried out any of these quality assurance exercises, it had failed (at least) in its recent statement to inform the public concerning them. Crucially, it would have been humane to take the opportunity of its announcement to inform its valued customers as it put it concerning the efforts that had been made and are being made to rescue those who have remained captives since March in order to further allay fears that any passenger who suffers such a mishap is very much on his/her own. This brings us to the larger issue of how Nigerians who survive disasters are treated. In the aftermath of the bandits’ attack, a flurry of visits by state officials to the hospitals and site of the tragedy ensued. Thereafter, the matter subsided apart from occasional statements by government spokespersons. For the most part, these statements carried or conveyed no particular gravity being routine almost casual. Obviously, as was revealed by the relatives of the captives, no action followed Buhari’s instruction to the NRC to set up a situation room and inform the affected families regularly. One of the mysteries of the current regime concerns how regularly instructions, ultimatums and even warnings from the president are flouted. On one occasion, during the herdsmen-farmers conflict in Benue State, which occasioned several deaths, Buhari got to Benue State to realise that the then Inspector General of Police, whom he had ordered to stay in Benue State for a while, had left the place for another state. In another example, before the ongoing strike by university teachers escalated, the chairman of the Academic Staff Union of Universities, Professor Emmanuel Osodeke, informed the public that after a particular meeting attended by Buhari, the president assigned three top-level officials of government to meet with ASUU leaders and resolve the evolving log jam. According to Osodeke, nothing more followed that instruction as no one talked about it or even pretended to carry out the instruction until the matter snowballed into a national crisis. The lag between official pronouncement and implementation raises several issues, one of which is the disconnect between dereliction and sanction. The matter is whether officials, according to a theory in paralinguistics, read more the body language of higher authorities rather than their statements, thereby selecting what instructions to carry out. The final possibility is whether some officials, for whatever reason, sabotage their principals by doing nothing until matters become desperate. However, the matter is decided, and the NRC is admonished to delay the resumption of its operations on the Abuja-Kaduna railway route pending informative and detailed assurances regarding whatever new safety gadgets it had acquired if any. Beyond that, it is important for the corporation to demonstrate the milk of human kindness with respect to the tragedy that befell its ‘’valued customers’’ in March and liaise closely with the government regarding the fate and prospects of those of its customers who continue to be tormented by terrorists. Such an open show of affection and human touch will be more eloquent than a million advertisements calculated to raise sales and preserve market share. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com