AHEAD of next summer’s transfer window, English Premier League side, Crystal Palace, are reportedly readying an offer of €12m for Nigeria international Ola Aina. The Chelsea youth academy graduate has a year left on his contract with Torino and the Italian outfit are ready to cash in on the defender than let him go for free next season. The 25-year-old started his career with Chelsea, where he made just three senior appearances – all as a substitute – before joining Torino initially on loan in 2018 and then a permanent deal worth €10m in 2019. The defender returned to England last season, on loan with Fulham, who were eventually relegated. During his time with the Cottagers, Aina made 31 appearances, but his contribution of two goals and an assist was not enough to ensure their Premier League status as they were relegated to the Championship. Aina returned to Torino after Fulham refused to exercise their option of signing the Nigerian on a permanent deal. Since his return, Aina has managed 19 appearances in Torino’s 34 Serie A games, 15 of which were as a starter. However, according to an Italian publication Torino Granata, Aina could be on his way to England for another spell with Palace in pole position to sign him. “The fate of Ola Aina is increasingly pious in the Premier League, also because Taurus (Torino) wants to capitalise on his sale,” the website wrote. “The Nigerian will start again in the summer, but this time, according to what we have collected, Crystal Palace are in pole (position) to close the deal: starting point €10-12m.”  All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com