The national youth wing of the All Progressives Congress, on Wednesday, sent invitation to the 28 aspirants vying for the party’s sole presidential ticket to a town hall meeting ahead of the primary. This was contained in a statement released on Wednesday in Abuja by the APC national youth leader, Dayo Israel. Israel disclosed that the two-day meeting, which is scheduled to hold at the APC Youths Presidential Town Hall in Abuja on May 27 would give the Nigerian youths an insight into the plans each presidential aspirant has in store for them when elected. Although it was not certain if the big wigs such as the national leader of the party, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu and Vice President Yemi Osinbajo and the remaining 26 presidential aspirants would be in attendance, Israel noted that the time had come for the organisation to prioritise the interest of the average Nigerian youth. The statement read, “In a few days, our party delegates will gather in Abuja at the Special Convention/Presidential Primary to elect the presidential candidate of our great party – the APC. While some of the aspirants have toured the country to address would-be delegates, we observe very little engagement with the youth wing of our party. “It is our belief that as the highest voting block, with the advantage of our population and demography, it is expedient that we sit at the table with all APC presidential aspirants and hear what they have for us as young progressives – if/when elected. “In light of this, the Office of the National Youth Leader will be convening a ‘2023 APC Presidential Aspirant Town Hall Meeting with Young progressives’ with the Theme: ‘What do you have for the youths?’ “On behalf of the youths of our party, I am using this medium to invite all our presidential aspirants to kindly make themselves available for this special event. Participants will be able to register to attend on a first come, first served basis on https://youngprogressives.ng/presidentialtownhall/ when the website goes live.” This is even as Israel announced that the APC national youths wing has appointed members of the steering committee for the presidential town hall meeting. They include Sanusi Ohiare (Co-Chair), Idris Aregbe (Co-Chair), Barrister Winifred Chukka – Secretary, Oluwatoyin Fasanmi – Asst Secretary, Hon. Jamalu Kabiru (Deputy National Youth Leader), Obidike Chukwuebuka, Hon Hafiz Repete, Dada Olusegun, Damilola Apotieri, Ahmadu Jibril, Hadiza Talba, Ibrahim Balogun, Nkemkama Kama and Makinde Araoye. Others are Abu Sodiqu, Segun Tomori, Abu Andrew, Ameen Amshi, Oyiborume Paul, Abubakar Dansoho, Aramide Kasumu, Rilwan Tinubu, Seyi Are, Kelechi Ekugo, Tanko Yakasai and Amaka Lawrence. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com