Ms Lauretta Onochie, Personal Assistant on Social Media to the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari, on Thursday said she cares less about the zoning of the 2023 presidency as long as it produces a credible and patriotic leader. This is even as she said that she would congratulate the winner whether he emerges from the ruling All Progressive Congress or the Peoples Democratic Party. “Anybody that the APC or PDP presents that wins the election, I will congratulate the person “I don’t care where the next president comes from as long he is somebody who loves the nation as much as I do,” she said. The presidential aide was dropped from Buhari’s nomination list as a National Commissioner representing Delta State at the Independent National Electoral Commission and replaced with Mrs May Agbamuche Mbu following outrage from Nigerians over her alleged partisan politics. Her nomination was subsequently rejected by the Senate on the grounds that it flouted the principle of federal character. Onochie opened up to our correspondent in a telephone interview a year after she was left in the cold that she would not begrudge anybody. While lamenting that Nigerians are hard to please, Onochie recalled that she was merely vilified for telling the world the truth. “I speak the truth, but they think everybody will be like them. You guys thought I was lying when I announced that I am not a member of APC. I still maintain it that I am not a member of the party,” she said. Onochie spent 16 years working as a career lecturer in the United Kingdom before becoming the presidential aide on social media When reminded that she was actively involved in partisan politics at the time she was attacked, the social media aide stressed that she only did that when ‘Mr President’ was still running for the presidency. “But since he won his second term, I haven’t been part of anything. I left a beautiful career in the UK that I abandoned to return home. You people just think I came here all because of politics. That’s not true,” she bemoaned Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com