Global forex broker OctaFX has partnered with Chess in Slums in Africa to celebrate the 2022 Children’s Day in Nigeria. With the partnership, OctaFX and the education-focused initiative created the #ChessForEducation programme to engage over 100 children from across Lagos. The children were drawn from Chess in Slums communities in Ikorodu, Makoko and Oshodi. Children from Minders Touch Schools also joined the Chess in Slums kids for the knowledge and fun-driven activity. To ensure access to knowledge and fun for the children, OctaFX and Chess in Slums Africa listed a chess masterclass. Chess in Slums kids acted as facilitators, taking children with no knowledge of chess through the basics. Explaining the game in their own words made the learning experience interactive and memorable.  The shared knowledge from the masterclass helped prepare the kids for a Chess Tournament. With junior and senior categories on the cards, 10 winners emerged. Beyond picking the top three winners, OctaFX also rewarded the Best Female Player and the Most Brilliant Player in each category. Three more winners emerged from a Mental Maths activity, bringing the total number of winners to 13. Each winner received a one-year educational scholarship and gift items from the global forex broker. Veteran actor, Joke Silva joined OctaFX and Chess in Slums Africa to inspire and celebrate the children. For attending the Children’s Day-themed event held at the Glover Memorial Hall on Lagos Island, the invited kids received bags, notepads, flasks, pens and chess boards. Commenting on the essence of the event, OctaFX Brand Ambassador & Convener, Chess in Slums Africa, Tunde Onakoya said: “Children are indispensable assets to the progress of any society. They are like living messages we are sending to a time we will not see. Bridging the gap between children from impoverished communities and children from urban communities becomes expedient if we are to build a sustainable future that is devoid of marginalization. Every child counts, every child matters. At OctaFX, we identify with this and are excited to partner with Chess in Slums in wielding the game of chess as a tool to build bridges and give children a platform to become champions irrespective of their background.”  Chief Operations Officer, Chess in Slums Africa, Emmanuel Abiodun Oke commended OctaFX on the move, noting that the initiative will continue to seek means to bring more knowledge-driven opportunities to economically-disadvantaged children. “We believe that every child is a genius and deserves an equal opportunity to get a better life regardless of their socioeconomic background. OctaFX has done remarkably well by stretching the hands of partnership to bring education, knowledge, and rewards to children from economically-disadvantaged communities. ‘’We are encouraged by the business’ support to keep working towards our vision to empower, uplift, and educate 1 million children in slum communities in 5 years through the noble chess game.” Children’s Day is celebrated annually in Nigeria every May 27. OctaFX is a global broker providing online trading services worldwide since 2011. It offers everything one needs to reach their investment goals, providing top-notch conditions utilised already by 7.5 million clients globally. The company is involved in a comprehensive network of charity and humanitarian initiatives, including improvement of educational infrastructure, short-notice relief projects, and supporting local communities and small to medium enterprises.