Edo State Governor, Godwin Obaseki, has said that press freedom and free speech are key to the development of democracy, noting that the state government has expunged sedition from the new criminal law of the state. Obaseki, who was represented by the Commissioner for Communication and Orientation, Adaze Enwanta, spoke at the official opening of Super FM in Benin on Friday. He said that it was clear that people tune in to radio and television stations to know what the government is doing because the government is the closest to them. The governor said, “For us as a government, democratic freedoms are the most important part of the freedom of expression and press freedom. “It is clear that people tune in to radio and television stations because they want to know what the government is doing. “Also, in order to respect the people’s opinion, we have taken deliberate steps. “Just recently, the Edo State Executive Council considered the new criminal law and we have abrogated the provision that has to do with sedition to allow for freedom of expression so that the journalist can express his views by way of report without fear or molestation. “Journalists occupy a very important position in our society. You also owe the public a duty and I must commend Super FM because you are doing just that. “The state government will work with your station and hopefully we will get our own broadcast regulatory body as stipulated in the constitution to regulate what you do instead of being tied to the Nigeria Broadcasting Corporation.” Chief Executive Officer of the station, Yemi Akinwunmi, said the corporate mission and vision statements are to better the individual and the society. She added, “As Super FM continues to grow with new branches springing up across the country, we have a uniform mission and vision statements. Our corporate mission and vision statements reflect is to better the individual and the entire human society. “Fittingly, our corporate objective is Impact and Profitability. So, Super 88.1 FM, Benin City, will through our strategic, interesting and professionally delivered content vigorously implement our mission and cision statements,and diligently, with utmost regards for the government, regulations, corporate sector and the good people of Edo State pursue our corporate objectives. “I, hereby, appeal for the support and understanding of every major stakeholder, just as we are also committed to playing our part in building an egalitarian society.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com