A presidential aspirant under the All Progressives Congress, Bola Tinubu, has defended his qualification as the right person to succeed the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.) in 2023. According to the Director of Media and Communication of the Tinubu Campaign Organisation, Bayo Onanuga, Tinubu said his exploits as the governor of Lagos State from 1999 to 2007 made him qualified to become the party’s flagbearer. Tinubu had appeared before the screening committee of the APC on Monday to defend his presidential ambition in the presence of a committee led by a former national chairman of the APC, John Oyegun, at the Transcorp Hilton Hotel in Abuja. In the statement, Onanuga said, “He (Tinubu) confidently told the panel why he is qualified to fly the flag of APC as its presidential candidate. “He cited his success as governor of Lagos State, raising the internal revenue generation of the state from a paltry N600 million monthly, which has now grown to N51 billion today.” Onanuga added that Tinubu demonstrated a vast knowledge of economic management and a perfect understanding of Nigeria’s political economy in his answers. Tinubu was also said to have cited his invitation to Enron to start the first state-backed power generation project in the country and how Nigeria would need to take the power transmission lines as a highway. Questions asked the APC National Leader included his upbringing, and educational and professional background. “Tinubu impressed the panel during the screening process with the way and manner he answered and provided insight into many of the questions asked. “The screening committee expressed satisfaction with Tinubu’s knowledge of the economy and socio-political issues that are affecting the country,” Onanuga stated. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com