A Peoples Democratic Party governorship aspirant in Delta State, Chief David Edevbie, has promised to revive the state’s 20-year development plan initiated during Governor James Ibori’s administration. Edevbie, a Commissioner for Finance in the Ibori administration, revealed that the development plan for Delta State inspired the Lagos State government to create its own 20-year plan, which has given Lagos a pride of place among the states. Speaking with journalists on his aspirations, Edevbie pointed out that while Lagos had maintained its development plan through its successive administrations to achieve enviable infrastructural, social and economic growth, Delta State’s plan had been abandoned by successive administrations. He assured that he would revive it if elected as governor. “We have done well in Delta State but we would have gone far in development if we had been following the plan. The difference between us and Lagos State is that they have followed  their plan through  successive administrations while we have abandoned our own. “By the grace of God, when I am elected governor, I will bring back the development plan within the first six months. The plan will cover our three senatorial districts, various economic and social sectors and with medium and long term goals. “It will be debated upon by public hearing and passed as legislation by the House of Assembly as a working document so that successive administrations do not deviate from it. “This will help us organise and integrate our development process. All districts and communities will see what is in it for them, in the present and in the future and this will resolve the apprehension of various ethnic groups and communities about the development of their areas.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com