Hours after the President of the African Development Bank, Dr Akinwumi Adesina, announced his decision not to join the 2023 presidential race, a purported campaign office has been spotted in the Asokoro district of Abuja. Our correspondent, on Tuesday evening, spotted banners bearing Adesina’s pictures with the caption: “Vote for a New Nigeria”. The large format banners were hung from a building situated meters away from the main entrance to the Presidential Villa. From a payment acknowledgment slip spotted by our correspondent bearing Adesina’s name, the coalition consisting of Youth Arise Movement, Nigerians in Diaspora, One Nigeria Group, Prudent Youth Association of Nigeria, women groups, farmers, PWDs, and other civil society groups, raised the N100m fee to purchase the forms. But responding on Tuesday, Adesina said “I have been extremely humbled by several calls from Nigerians at home and abroad that I should consider running for the office of the President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. “I am very touched by all who have gone to great extent, with such huge sacrifices, of their own volition, to consider me worthy to be proposed for potential consideration. “The coalition groups of youth, women, farmers, physically challenged and well-meaning Nigerians that have done this have expressed their genuine free will, political right, freedom of expression and association for my consideration, with the interest of Nigeria at heart. “While I am deeply honored, humbled and grateful for all the incredible goodwill, kindness, and confidence, my current responsibilities at this time do not allow me to accept to be considered. “I remain fully engaged and committed to the mission that Nigeria, Africa and all the non-African shareholders of the African Development Bank have given me for Africa’s development. “I remain fully focused on the mission of supporting the accelerated development and economic integration of Africa.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com