The Lagos State Government has tasked the Lagos Ferry Services to ensure the deployment and application of the latest technology in all areas of its operations to improve water transportation systems and impact positively on the economy of the state. The charge was given by the team leader, Software/Web Development, Lagos State Ministry of Science and Technology, Mr Wasiu Jimoh, during LAGFERRY’s management retreat with the theme, “Innovative Water Transportation for a 21st Century Economy,” held at the Administrative Staff College of Nigeria Badagry. A statement by the state government on Monday quoted Jimoh as saying, “There is an urgent need to take an inventory of our existing technology deployment and work towards innovating new ideas to enhance service delivery in this critical and important sector of the economy. “An improved water transportation system in Lagos State, using the latest technology, would impact positively on the economy of the state.” The team leader outlined key areas that would enhance the performance of LAGFERRY such as the introduction of a fully-automated ticketing system using the best payment solution, acquisition of ferries that are energy efficient and monitored in real-time, an efficient safety and rescue system employing the use of CCTVs, drones and unmanned water robots among others. On his part, the General Manager, Lagos State Waterways Authority, Mr Damilola Emmanuel, expressed confidence in the ability of LAGFERRY to achieve the state government’s mandate of ferrying 30 per cent of Lagosians via waterways and decongesting road traffic. Earlier, in his welcome address by a Deputy Director, LAGFERRY, Mr Akeem Odusina, identified unwavering government support, teamwork, regular workshops, training and seminars as some of the reasons for the remarkable achievements recorded in the short period of operations. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com