A Nigerian, Executive Director, Enough is Enough, Yemi Adamolekun, has been announced as one of the winners of the Global Citizen Prize. According to Global Citizen, an international advocacy organisation, the Global Citizen Prize: Citizen Award 2022 and Cisco Youth Leadership Award recognises individuals for their efforts in shaping the world, poverty eradication, and the sustained impact they have created in their work of fighting for social justice. In a statement, the organisation said, “The coveted Global Citizen Prize 2022 shines a light on international activists who keep the world’s poor at the forefront of their campaigning and celebrates these individuals who have shown exceptional commitment to achieving the United Nations’ Global Goals. The President of Global Citizen, Liza Henshaw, said, “Global Citizen is honoured to recognise these remarkable changemakers who have the vision, foresight, and persistence to make meaningful strides towards building a better future through their pivotal work. “Given the urgent need for innovative solutions to deal with the challenges of defending the planet, defeating poverty, and demanding equity, we need individuals like our awardees who are ready to take immediate action.” The organisation added that winners of its award would be honoured at a private dinner event in New York’s iconic Gotham Hall. It added that this year’s awardees include, Anuscheh Amir-Khalili, Activist and Social Entrepreneur, Flamingo e.V. (Germany); Barbie Izquierdo, Activist, Consultant, and Community Empowerment Manager, Hunger-Free America (USA); Brianna Fruean, Climate Activist, Pacific Climate Warriors (Samoa), Khanyisile Motsa, Founder and Director, Berea-Hillbrow Home of Hope (South Africa). Mitzy Violeta Cortés Guzmán, Defender of the Earth, Futuros Indígenas Network (Mexico); Payzee Mahmod, Child Marriage Survivor & Campaigner, IKWRO – Women’s Rights Organisation (United Kingdom); and Yemi Adamolekun, Executive Director, Enough is Enough, (Nigeria).  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com