The Anambra State Governor, Prof. Chukwuma Soludo, said the gruesome murder of the lawmaker representing Aguata 2 Constituency in the state Assembly, Okechukwu Okoye, showed that criminals don’t value human life anymore. Taking to his verified Facebook page, Soludo said no human being should ever have to experience death in that way. The governor said the rampaging criminals have elected to desecrate Igbo land with the blood of the innocent. He said Okey together with his aide, Cyril Chiegboka, were murdered in the most gruesome manner. He pointed out that the state government has placed N10m bounty for anyone with useful information, adding that criminality is a war Anambra must win. He reminded the people that the party is over, as every community must brace up to join forces with the government in the war to reclaim the land. He said, “(Okey dị okay) and Cyril Chiegboka were murdered in the most gruesome manner. No human being should ever have to experience death in that way. For no just reason, rampaging criminals have elected to desecrate our land with the blood of the innocent. “This is a test of our resolve, and we are more emboldened than cowed that this criminality must be stamped out of our land. “Ụmụnnem Ndị Anambra, this is not who we are. The party is over, and every community must brace up to join forces with government in this war to reclaim our homeland. “Okey and Cyril will never die in vain. May God console their young families, the people of Isuofia and ndị Anambra. May their souls and all others who have lost their lives in the hands of these criminals continue to rest in peace. “We have placed N10m bounty for anyone with useful information. This war is one that Anambra must win!” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com