Crisis has reportedly erupted at the All Progressive Congress G-7 group over allegations that the leader of the faction and former governor of Kano State, Ibrahim Shekarau, was making moves to secretly reconcile with Governor Abdullahi Ganduje in an effort to re-secure his senatorial seat in 2023. Reports said Shekarau had a series of secret meetings with Ganduje aimed at pacifying him (Ganduje) so that he (Shekarau) would have the chance to reclaim his senatorial seat. However, Senator Jibrin Barau, who is also among the G-7 group leaders was said to have openly attacked Shekarau over what he termed “betrayal of trust” at a time they were pursuing their APC primary case at the Supreme Court. Supporters of both Shekarau and Barau were said to verbally attack each other on their Facebook pages, with Barau’s loyalists tagging Shekarau as a “betrayer.” Shekarau, Barau, House of Representatives member, Shaaban Sharada, and four others are in court fighting Ganduje over the APC primaries that saw two factional leaders, Ahmadu Zago and Abdullahi Abbas, emerging. The G-7 at a Federal High Court defeated Ganduje where the judge ruled that the Shekarau factional leadership was authentic, something that provoked Ganduje to appeal the case. In its ruling, the Abuja Appeal Court gave judgement in favour of the Ganduje faction, making Abdullahi Abbas as the authentic chairman of the party in Kano State. However, not satisfied with the outcomes of the Appeal Court ruling, the Shekarau faction moved to the Supreme Court, asking the court to nullify the ruling of the Appeal Court. But recent happenings might have put Senator Jibrin Barau and others in their camp off balance. Efforts to contact Shekarau’s media aide, Sule Ya’u Sule, to comment on the issue failed as his phone was not going through. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com