Governor of Anambra State, Chukwuma Soludo, has visited the detained leader of the Indigenous People of Biafra, Mazi Nnamdi Kanu. The governor quoted the IPOB leader as saying that he would preach peace when released. Soludo made this known in a post on his Facebook page on Saturday night after visiting the IPOB leader. He posted, “I visited Mazi Nnamdi Kanu, yesterday, (Friday, 13th May, 2022) to felicitate with him and also as part of the wider consultations with critical stakeholders in search of lasting peace and security in the South East. “He was in very high spirits and we had quality and frank discussion in a very convivial atmosphere. He expressed sadness over what he described as “sacrilegious killings” of innocent persons, kidnappings and all forms of criminalities, including the brutal enforcement of the senseless “sit at home” perpetuated by sundry groups claiming to be acting for or on behalf of IPOB. “He assured that if the opportunity arises, he will be glad to personally broadcast to his followers to maintain the peace. “Together, we shall restore peace, security and prosperity in Anambra and the Southeast. “It is well indeed!” Kanu, who is facing charges of treason, treasonable felony, terrorism, and illegal possession of firearms, among others, allegedly jumped bail in 2017 and left the country, only to re-emerge in Israel and then in the United Kingdom. The former London estate agent was rearrested in June 2021. He was initially arrested in late 2015 after calling for a separate state for Biafra, in South-East Nigeria. He was re-arraigned before a Federal High Court in Abuja and ordered to be remanded in the custody of the DSS. Following the sudden appearance of Kanu in a Federal High Court in Abuja on June 29, 2021, the Attorney-General of Nigeria, Abubakar Malami, SAN, at a press conference, stated that Kanu was “intercepted through the collaborative efforts of Nigerian intelligence and Security Services”. But Kanu’s legal team complained that beyond “the bland use of the word ‘interception’, neither the Attorney-General nor any other Nigerian official has explained how and where this infamous interception occurred or whether it occurred under the pertinent legal framework or not”. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com