The parallel universe of the Nigerian ruling elite was laid bare a couple of weeks ago with the hysterical reaction to a proposal by Aare Afe Babalola, the renowned philanthropist, legal icon and founder, Afe Babalola University, Ado-Ekiti, that the 2023 general elections be suspended in favour of a six-month interim government to be drawn from various strands of the Nigerian social, economic and political life. To the ruling elite, this is simply heresy. It is as if election has become not just a means to an end but an end in itself. After all, individuals have committed billions of naira to the impending contest already. Political alliances and cosy deals have been and are still being struck, blank cheques are being offered, as positions are carved up for North, South, Central, East and West in anticipation of a new dawn of victory at the polls. Like the proverbial ostriches, they bury their heads in the sand and let pass the destitution, squalor, wanton murders, abductions, homelessness, unemployment and decay engulfing the land over which they are plotting to rule. To them, Afe Babalola is a busybody and a killjoy, coming to switch off the lights on the dance floor with his audacious proposal for an interim government. “Nonsense,” “constitution not the problem,” “unacceptable,” “destabilising,” “call to anarchy” were some of the lurid headlines. To be fair, there were other well-meaning individuals outside the ruling clique, who also voiced their opposition to the proposal on grounds of ideology and practicality, much of which stem from a fundamental misreading of Afe Babalola’s intention. A luminary figure of his stature would not just wake up one dreary morning and start lashing out. The genesis of his latest intervention in the public discourse of this kind has its roots in the pre-1999 agitation for a Sovereign National Conference. By 2023, no first-time voter in Nigeria will have lived a single day under a military regime. The pre-1999 ‘pro-democracy’ activism appears so distant for some now that they find it hard to remember some of its rather ominous details. People fail to remember how close Nigeria indeed came to breaking up. A presidential election was held in 1993, which was largely peaceful, largely free and largely fair. The electorate did something never thought possible in Nigeria’s turbulent history; they voted overwhelmingly for MKO Abiola across ethnic and geographical divides. Abiola, the Social Democratic Party’s candidate, was a Yoruba from the South-West geopolitical zone, while his opponent, Alhaji Bashir Tofa of the National Republican Convention, a Fulani, was from the North-West zone. The real miracle of that election was that the candidate from the South-West defeated the one from the North-West in his own backyard in Kano. It was meant to be the rebirth of Nigeria as a nation – at last. The military junta, led by General Ibrahim Babangida, spat in the face of Nigerians by announcing the cancellation of the results as they were flooding in and showing the winner to be streets ahead of his main rival. Babangida (a northerner) had been in power since 1985; before then, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (a northerner) was in power, having overthrown the civilian government of Alhaji Shehu Shagari (a northerner) in 1983. Babangida’s reckless cancellation of a legitimate victory of a candidate outside his northern comfort zone created the perfect storm for a modern-day repudiation of the colonial amalgamation of northern and southern Nigeria in 1914, followed in tow by a call for a “renegotiated union” or “restructuring” as it later became known. Ethnic cleavages became superimposed on the fight for democracy and civilian governance. The dice appeared to have been cast. Nigeria was truly at the edge of a precipice. Sensing an existential denouement, the 1999 elections were hurriedly arranged under a constitution written and enacted by the outgoing military regime of General Abdulsalam Abubakar. General Olusegun Obasanjo (retd.), a Yoruba from the South-West, was handpicked more or less from obscurity by the northern caucuses as their preferred candidate. He won under the banner of the Peoples Democratic Party. It was a dubious victory, won under a dubious constitution. It failed to address the apple of discord. Nigeria has been papering over the cracks and tittering on the edge ever since. You cannot foist a constitution on a people who have not been asked to give their consent. No point sugar-coating it, the phrase “we the people” in the introduction of the 1999 Nigeria’s Constitution is a barefaced lie. No referendum of the people ever took place to approve. Consequently, the simmering agitation has persisted. The elections held under that same constitution since then have been illegitimate but the politicians benefiting from it have developed a vested interest in upholding it. That is precisely why we have a crisis of governance that will and must be resolved one way or another. Omoyele Sowore’s Revolution Now in 2019, gave impetus to the yearning for a new political dispensation in the country. It was, however, nipped in the bud rather ruthlessly by the security forces, who took him out of circulation. The #EndSARS protests of 2020 was a bomb that nearly exploded under the feet of the ruling elite. Although the placards on the streets pointed to police brutality, the underlying agitation went beyond that. It was about injustice and failure of governance. Unfortunately, the ‘leaderless’ nature of the protests connived to deprive it of articulation and direction at a critical moment in the uprising. But many people in this country believe #EndSARS is coming back with a vengeance, under a determined leadership the next time around. The Indigenous Peoples of Biafra and the Oodua movement are two prominent separatist organisations covering the South-East and South-West regions of the country. This is not to talk of various paramilitary groups rampaging the four corners of Nigeria, which the authorities have conveniently labelled ‘banditry’. There is a feeling in the air that Nigeria is back in the pre-1999 mood for a root and branch change of the ‘Sovereign National Conference now, or else’ type. Afe Babalola senses this, as do millions of young people. There is a three-way split in the reaction to his proposal. First, the establishment, who does not want to see their dinner party interrupted. Second, the revolutionary, who would rather burst through the dinner party. Third, the moderate, who wants to re-arrange the dinner party to accommodate a little bit more. Afe Babalola’s proposal is a red flag in front of a bull in every single scenario. The proposal ruffles up and unsettles every vested interest in equal measure. It is also the signal that he has struck a chord; that his instincts are in the right place. The man could be sipping Champagne and enjoying life on the golf course, but not him. For that matter, how many people anywhere in the world, in their 90s, would go to work from 8.45am to 10.45pm every day, whilst striving tirelessly to improve the lot of their compatriots? Your guess is as good as mine. You may not agree with every prescription in Afe Babalola’s proposal, many of which would naturally be open to debate and adjustments, as normal in the circumstance. No one should deny it merits serious consideration. However, for those ready to dismiss it out of hand, it is worth remembering US President John F. Kennedy (1961-1963)’s statement at the height of his power: “Those who make peaceful change impossible, make violent change inevitable.” drtayooke@gmail.com Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com