A chieftain of the All Progressives Congress, Osita Okechukwu, announced on Tuesday that 3,000 state Houses of Assembly aspirants will be screened nationwide to decide who will clinch the party’s tickets ahead of the 2023 general elections. Okechukwu disclosed this at the International Conference Centre, Abuja venue of the screening for state Houses of Assembly aspirants. He said his assignment was targeted at building a foundation for the new leadership of the country that will emanate from the candidates of the various political parties. He said, “In our own instance in the All Progressives Congress, we are going to screen those we think are qualified to run for the House of assembly. “In the Nigerian political stock market, we are Brand A1. So we have over 3,000 aspirants contesting across the country. And for us to do a good job we want to make it easier for the electorate by presenting those who are better, more qualified, that meets all the conditions. “One of which is being a Nigerian, having gone to secondary school and being of good behavior. This is our job. We are working with the guidelines of INEC, the guidelines of our party, the APC and the constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria.” Okechukwu had earlier announced that the APC will elect 44,045 and 2,322 new delegates to determine the fate of governorship and presidential aspirants who are scrambling for the party’s tickets ahead of the 2023 general elections. The VON DG noted that five delegates will be elected per ward in all of the 8,809 wards in the country for governorship primary while three new delegates will emerge from each of the 774 local governments for the presidency. In a related development, the APC National Organising Secretary, Suleiman Argungu on Tuesday urged the inaugurated committees to do the party proud by screening credible and most qualified aspirants. “This is one of the critical segments of our transition in the general election 2023,” he said. Argungu pledged to provide each chairman and secretary of the committees the party guidelines that specify minimum requirements, APC requirements, educational requirements, payment of form fees which qualifies each aspirant to contest, sponsors and requisite for disqualification if anybody goes against Section 84(3) of the electoral acts as amended. “As the chairman said, do justice to all and the guidelines will be there to help you do this. So I wish you Allah’s guardians as you travel to your various destinations. Let me hand over to the legal adviser to give the legal input to guide you,” he said.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com