Following the tragic stampede in Port Harcourt, Rivers State, on Saturday, where many people died, King Felipe and Queen Letizia of Spain, sent their condolences to the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), on Tuesday. Saturday PUNCH reported that the Rivers State Police Command confirmed 31 persons dead during a stampede at the venue of an outreach programme put together by a church in Port Harcourt on Saturday morning. The church, Kings Assembly, was said to have invited members of the public to partake in the event where gift items and free food were promised to be shared to congregants. Though located in the GRA of Port Harcourt, the Church held the event at the Port Harcourt Polo Club, a bigger facility to accommodate the anticipated crowd. The acting spokesperson for the state Police Command, Grace Iringe-Koko, confirmed the 31 deaths, saying the church had organised the outreach to share palliatives to the underprivileged in society before the stampede. According to a statement signed by the Special Adviser to the President on Media and Publicity, Femi Adesina, the monarchs also wished a speedy recovery to those recuperating from the incident. The statement is titled ‘Port Harcourt tragedy: King Felipe, Queen Letizia of Spain sends condolences to President Buhari.’ In a message addressed to the President and signed by His Majesty the King, Felipe VI, the Monarch wrote: ‘‘Mr President, ‘‘Upon learning of the terrible tragedy that occurred in the city of Port Harcourt, in which such a large number of people lost their lives, I wish to convey to you, on behalf of the Government and the people of Spain, our deepest condolences. ‘‘The Queen joins me in sending, through you, all our support and solidarity to the families of the deceased and best wishes for a speedy recovery for the injured. ‘‘Receive, Mr President, the testimony of my highest consideration and esteem together with an affectionate greeting for the beloved people of Nigeria.’’ Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com