WITH the summer transfer market now on the horizon, Watford have been linked with a move for Swansea City forward of Nigerian descent Michael Obafemi. This news comes as talk of an exit for current Nigerian striker Emmanuel Dennis begins to build momentum. With just five games left to save their season – and nine points between them and safety – it looks as though the Hornets will go down at the end of the campaign. If that is to happen, as often is the case with relegation, a number of key first-team figures may well be on the move. Dennis has perhaps been the most exciting player in the squad this term, having scored 10 league goals and provided a further six assists. With that in mind, he’ll likely have plenty of suitors should he want to leave at the end of the season. As reported by The Athletic, the Nigerian has a clause in his contract which will trigger a significant reduction in salary should they end up in the Championship. Also, the Hornets may also feel now is a good time to sell the forward. As he has been one of the club’s best performers this term, that also makes him one of their most saleable assets. Having paid Club Brugge roughly £3m for the 24-year-old only last year, Dennis is now valued by the club at somewhere in excess of £20m. And so, as a sale could benefit all parties in the event of relegation, it makes sense for the Hornets to soon turn their heads towards the market as they line up a replacement forward. And 21-year-old Championship attacker Obafemi could well be the man the club go for. According to Football League World, both Watford and Brighton and Hove Albion are tracking the Swansea man, who has impressed in 2022 so far. Indeed, since the turn of the year, the former Southampton man has scored 10 league goals, while also claiming three assists. During his current run of strong form, Obafemi has operated down the middle, and while this is the role he usually adopts, he can also play on the wing. This could make him an ideal replacement for Dennis, who often drifts centrally if he starts on the flank or vice versa if he begins down the middle.