Rivers United boosted their chances of landing their first-ever Nigeria Professional Football League title after claiming a hard-earned 3-2 away win at Dakkada in a matchday 30 encounter in Uyo on Saturday. The win ensured Stanley Eguma’s side maintained their seven-point advantage over second- placed Plateau United who also defeated Enugu Rangers in Jos. Chijoke Akuneto opened scoring for Rivers United in the 21st minute after he latched on to an error by Samuel Akpan. The hosts drew level seven minutes later through Edidiong Ezekiel. Ezekiel, however, put his side ahead for the first time in the game in the 48th minute but substitute Malachy Ohawume made it 2-2 for Rivers United eight minutes from time. Ohawume secured victory for the Pride of Rivers in the 90th minute. Rivers United now have 64 points from 30 games with eight games left to play. At the New Jos Stadium, Plateau United kept the pressure on leaders Rivers United with a 4-0 thrashing of Enugu Rangers. Mohammed Zulkifilu scored from the penalty spot in ninth minute to put the hosts in the lead. Philip Asiegbu was denied a chance to draw level in the 26th minute when his penalty was saved by Suraj Ayeleso. Zulkifilu grabbed his second goal of the game when he fired in a shot from close range in the 37th minute. Chimezie Izuchukwu scrambled in the third goal in the 65th minute, after keeper Seidu Mutawakilu failed to clear Daniel Itodo’s long throw-in. The home team added the fourth goal through Sunday Anthony 13 minutes from time. In Aba, eight-time champions, Enyimba without their coach Finidi George who is on international duty beat Nasarawa United 3-2 in a thrilling contest at the Enyimba stadium. Samuel Onukwube gave Enyimba the lead a minute before the break before Sunday Okereke equalised for Nasarawa United four minutes after the break. The two-time CAF Champions League winners regained the lead through Chukwuemeka Obioma in the 52nd minute but they were pegged back again in the 77th minute after Michael Tochukwu scored from the spot. Ghana midfielder Farouk Mohammed scored the winner from the penalty spot three minutes from time. Kano Pillars also recorded a 3-1 win away at Remo Stars 3-1 in Ikenne. Auwalu Ali bagged a brace for Pillars, while Mark Daniel scored the other goal for the Sai Masu Gida. Ibrahim Yusuf scored a consolatory goal for Remo Stars in the game. The win moved Pillars four points off the relegation zone. Reigning champions, Akwa United suffered a shock 1-0 defeat to Kwara United at the Ilorin Township stadium with Samad Kadiri grabbing the winner goal from the spot on 38 minutes. In Okigwe, Heartland came from a goal down to defeat Shooting Stars 3-1. Gafar Olafimihan put 3SC ahead from the spot after seven minutes but the Naze Millionaires rallied back to win the tie through goals from Chukwudi Nwaodu, Adewole Adeniji and Murphy Ndukwu. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com