The Osun State Governor, Adegboyega Oyetola, has promised that his administration will continue to work towards the prosperity of the state. The governor made the pledge after receiving the Vanguard Newspapers Governor of the Year 2021 award for good governance in Lagos on Friday. Oyetola described the recognition as a challenge to impact more on humanity. He also dedicated the award to the people of Osun for giving him the opportunity to prove that governance could be achieved with the fear of God. According to the organisers, the choice of Oyetola for the award was based on empirical facts and statistics, which showed the geometric transformation that Osun had witnessed under the governor’s watch. “Since assumption of office, you have delivered the dividends of democracy without loans. It is on record that you have prudently managed available resources, while your administration has kept faith with the people and maintained fidelity with your electoral promises,” the organisers said. In his remarks, Oyetola said, “I am highly elated to accept this award of Governor of the Year for Good Governance by one of the nation’s frontline and integrity-savvy newspapers. This is a reward for hard work, and I accept it wholeheartedly. “We came in when no one gave us a chance. We inherited a financially challenged state, one that could not pay its bills. However, we resolved to make a difference. And the difference we have so far made was through the prudent management of resources, including plugging waste and cutting costs. “In these three and a half years that we have been in the saddle, we have proved as a government that good governance and service delivery is possible in a depressed economy; that we can execute projects without borrowing; that we can look inward to pay salaries. “We have spent over three and a half years in government building a solid foundation for a sustainable economy. The remaining years shall be spent building bricks that will deliver a strong and prosperous Osun and a happy and productive people. This is our mission in government. This is the least we owe our people.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com