The National Chairman of All Progressives Congress, Abdullahi Adamu, has promised that the party will field its finest candidates ahead of the 2023 general elections. This is even as he disclosed that the APC is fortunate to still be in control of 22 states and two third of lawmakers in the country. Adamu made the statement at the inauguration and screening of the party’s governorship, senatorial and House of Representatives aspirants in Abuja on Sunday. The party chairman, who was represented by the Deputy National Chairman (North), Senator Abubakar Kyari, urged the aspirants to stick to party rules as they jostle for the APC tickets. “We have been very fortunate as a party that we have produced the best. Today we have 22 states and at the last count before myself (Kyari) and the national chairman and one of our colleagues resigned from the Senate we had 70 senators out of 109, which is just three shy of the two-third majority needed in the Senate. Also we have almost two-third of the House of Representatives membership. “And even after we had left we had one senator who decamped into the APC from Sokoto and we’re expecting another one from Oyo to officially cross the aisle to the APC. All of us here in the National Working Committee, on behalf of the national chairman, would like to welcome you here,” he said. According to him, APC is a strong party that is committed to delivering the right candidates for the forthcoming elections. The national chairman added that he has no doubt that all the aspirants assembled at Fraser Suites in Central Business District area of Abuja can achieve the feat. “I know there’s a long, long huddle ahead of all of us. I would like to at this point plead with you to be patient, screen thoroughly so that we can have the best of the best,” he said. Recall that the APC National Organising Secretary, Suleiman Argungu, had disclosed on Saturday that 1,693 politicians comprising 145 governorship, 351 senatorial and 1,197 for the House of Representatives aspirants were screened at the two-day exercise. Argungu disclosed that “we have 28 presidential aspirants so far. They will be screened on May 23, 2022.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com