Vice President Yemi Osinbajo has said Nigerians must put sentiments aside and elect the best candidates into elective positions, especially in 2023. Osinbajo stated this in his interactions with stakeholders and delegates of the All Progressives Congress on Friday in Akwa Ibom State. This was contained in a statement on Saturday by his spokesman, Laolu Akande, titled, “2023 elections most significant for Nigeria, says Osibanjo as Akwa Ibom monarchs describe VP as symbol of unity, love’. Restating that his aspiration to become president is hinged on giving his best in service to the country, the vice president said, “this coming election (2023), beginning with primaries, maybe the most significant for our generation, and generations to come.” “I am sure that God helping me, if I am given the opportunity to do the job, I will give my best. By God’s grace, I believe that this country will be better. Each and every one of us will know that difference.” Osinbajo added that he chose to offer himself in service to the country as president come 2023 because of his firm belief in, and dedication to Nigeria’s great future and destiny. Calling on delegates and Nigerians alike to partner with him to make the country better, he added, “what I am offering as an individual is a commitment to developing this nation in the way that other nations of the world have been developed, the pace that other nations of the world have been developed.” Meanwhile, Osinbajo paid a courtesy call on members of the State’s Traditional Council of Chiefs, who were led by the Council’s President General, who is also the Paramount Ruler, Nsit Ubium LGA, His Eminence Nteyin (Dr.) Solomon Etuk (JP). The vice president who formally informed the council of his intention to run for president in 2023, thanked the council for the warm reception and hospitality. In his remarks, the council’s president described Osinbajo as a cherished one, who is cherished where ever he goes, adding that the vice president is “a symbol of love, peace, and unity of this country.” “The Vice President is a cherished personality; he is cherished at home, cherished abroad, and cherished everywhere he goes. He is a good friend of the State. He’s also here with us. “What I want to say, on behalf of the Akwa Ibom State Traditional Council, is that the Almighty God that knows the beginning also knows the end. He knew you before you were born. He will protect you, guide you right, and show you the way to go. When you become the president, please remember us.” Offering further support for Osinbajo’s aspiration, the paramount ruler said, “Your excellency sir, you are a symbol of love, peace, and unity of this country. You must continue to be… Whatever you want to do, may the Almighty God open the door for you to succeed. Because if you succeed, Nigeria succeeds. If you succeed, Akwa Ibom succeeds. May Almighty God be with you and your entourage.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com