The Kaduna State Police Command has arrested a serving councillor allegedly supplying guns to terrorists at Galadimawa in the Giwa Local Government Area of the state. Items recovered from the suspect were an AK47 loaded with six rounds of live ammunition. The state police spokesperson, Mohammed Jalige, who disclosed this in a statement on Friday, identified the suspect as Abdulrahman Adamu, a “serving member in the legislative council of Soba LGA of Kaduna State representing Kinkiba ward.” Jalige also said that the suspect, who confessed to the crime, said he got the firearm from his accomplices and was meant to be delivered to terrorists “around Galadimawa village for their nefarious activities.” “The operatives of Operation Puff Adder II attached to the Kaduna Police Command, while acting on the instruction of the Commissioner of Police, Yekini Ayoku, on May 9, 2022, at about 0800hrs, conducted routine patrol along Galadimawa Road, Giwa LGA of Kaduna State. The operation, which is aimed at ensuring sanity on the connecting axis, succeeded in intercepting a black Lifan motorcycle, ridden by one Abdulrahman Adamu who was moving towards Galidimawa community. “The operatives became suspicious of the sack on the motorcycle and were prompted to search it. In the process, a concealed AK47 loaded with six rounds of 7.62 by 39mm live ammunition was recovered from the sack and taken into custody alongside the suspect,” the statement partly read. “Preliminary investigation reveals the identity of the suspect, Abdulrahman Adamu, as a serving member in the legislative council of Soba LGA of Kaduna State representing Kinkiba Ward. The suspect equally confessed to have got the firearm from his accomplices and he was to deliver the same to bandits around Galadimawa village for their nefarious activities.” Jalige quoted the commissioner of police to have expressed satisfaction over the diligence and thoroughness exhibited by the officers in carrying out the assignment. The CP, he said, also directed that a full-scale investigation be carried out to ensure the arrest of those connected with the crime to face the full weight of the law.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com