A presidential aspirant on the platform of the Young Progressives Party, Mrs Ruby Isaac, has pledged to work toward ending the perennial Academic Staff Union of Universities’ strike in the country. Isaac said this on Tuesday at the party’s National Secretariat in Abuja when she spoke with newsmen. She also promised to salvage dysfunctional public institutions in the country, saying that quality and functional education was a catalyst for national development. “It is shameful to see education stakeholders who have not performed well now vying for elective positions while the system suffers and youths suffer longevity in studying short-term courses as a result of their insensitivity and selfishness. “Nigerian leaders deliberately ignored proffering solutions to the nations problem because of greed, selfishness and self-service. “But if I am given the opportunity to serve in the capacity of the president, I will ensure that identified problems that hinder national progress such as ASUU strikes would be given permanent solutions. “I will also ensure that children of elected public officers are made to school within the country and not outside the country,” she said. She added: “This is one major way to end a dysfunctional educational system, because no elected officer would sit back and watch his or her child remain in school for so long.” She promised to strive hard to reduce to the bare minimum the number of out-of-school children in the country. “We will do this by creating and enforcing legislation that will make it compulsory for parents/guardians to send their children/wards to school, at least up to the secondary level of education,” she said. She also promised to pay special attention to girl-child education, especially in Northern Nigeria. The aspirant also pledged to address infrastructure deficit in Nigeria, which has been identified as most challenging factor in doing business in the country. She pledged to offset the nations foreign debt as well as end further borrowings. According to her, to clear a nations debt without further borrowings, the country must become resourceful and generate its funds internally. “We will diversity into every untapped natural resource that we have like rubber and ensure that our economy becomes a multidimensional economy,” she said. She promised to use the party’s strategies to tackle poverty, overhaul the police and other sister agencies for better results. NAN