The Police Service Commission has confirmed John Amadi as a substantive Deputy Inspector-General of Police. He replaced late DIG Joseph Egbunike and will be representing the South-East in the Force Management. The commission also approved the appointment of DIG Zama Senchi, who was the most senior in the Assistant Inspector General cadre. Rising from its 15th plenary in Abuja on Friday, the commission in a statement on Monday by its spokesman, Ikechukwu Ani, disclosed that it equally promoted eight Commissioners of Police to Assistant Inspectors-General of Police. The plenary which began on Wednesday, May 11, was presided over by the Chairman of the commission and former Inspector-General of Police, Alhaji Musiliu Smith. The new AIGs include a former acting Chairman, Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, Ibrahim Magu, who was the most senior in the commissioner of police cadre. Other new AIGs are Abraham Ayim; Okunlola Kamaldeen; Andrew Amieengheme; Akeera Younous; Celestine Elumelu; Ngozi Onadeko and Danladi Lalas (Airwing). The commission also approved the promotion of 23 deputy commissioners to the next rank of CPs; 31 assistant commissioners to DCPs and 63 Chief Superintendents of Police to ACPs. The new CPs include Taiwo Jesubiyi, former DC,  Admin and Finance, Akwa Ibom State Command;  Kolawole Olajide former DC, Force CID Annex, Alagbon, Lagos; Julius Okoro, former DC, Maritime, Lagos and Adelesi Oluwarotimi, former DC DFA, Kwara State Command. The statement said, “Other decisions taken by the commission at the plenary were the promotion of 57 Superintendents of Police earlier skipped when their mates were promoted to the next rank of Chief Superintendents. “Other categories of Superintendents of Police such as the Administrative Staff College of Nigeria, Course 4, Inspectors Course 37 and regular ASP’s course 25 and 26 were also promoted to Chief Superintendents, having met established requirements. “The commission also promoted 1,698 ASPs to DSPs, while 6119 inspectors who attended the recent Departmental Selection Board were promoted to ASP11; 1965 ASP11 were confirmed ASPs.” The commission also approved the conversion of 19 engineers from general duty to specialists and upgraded to the rank of DSPs, which is the statutory entry level for pilots and aircraft maintenance engineers in line with the aviation scheme of service. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com