The Lagos State Police Command has paraded six suspects linked with the death of David Sunday, the sound engineer, allegedly lynched by suspected motorcyclists in the Lekki area of the state. The state Commissioner of Police, Abiodun Alabi, said the suspects killed Sunday who was called to mediate in a crisis. He said, “On May 12, 2022, around 6.30pm, at Studio 24, Lekki, Lagos, an Okada rider by the name Dahiru, had a quarrel with his passengers, Frank Olatunji and Philip Balogun, over the bike fare. “In the heat of the argument, Frank Olatunji and Philip Balogun invited one David Sunday to mediate only for Dahiru and his cohorts to violently attack him, kill him, and set him ablaze. “A total of six suspects, Dahiru Ayuba, Susan Moses, Christopher Dauda, Joseph Tella, Chigozie Anthony, and Sunday Azi, have been arrested. Suspects will be charged to court after the investigation.” Meanwhile, an ongoing supremacy clash between suspected cult members has claimed the lives of four persons in the Ketu and Mile 12 areas of Lagos State. During a parade of suspects arrested in connection to a series of crimes in the state, on Friday, the CP said the deceased, Ayo Dada, Adesegun Adesanya, aka Ologodudu, and three others were killed during reprisal attacks by rival cult members. Alabi said one of the suspects, Sunday Tomoloju, linked to the death of one of Adesanya, was trailed to his hideout where he was arrested. He noted that during interrogation, Tomoloju confessed to killing Adesanya, adding that he would be charged for the crime. Alabi said, “On February 20, 2022, one Ayo Dada, now deceased and two others who were cult members were killed by some suspected rival cult members at Ketu, Mile 12, Lagos. “On February 21, 2022, one Sunday Tomoloju and other members of his cult group went on a reprisal mission to avenge their late members and killed one Adesegun Adesanya, aka Ologodudu. “Upon receipt of this information, detectives tracked down the principal suspect, Sunday Tomoloju to his remote stronghold where he was apprehended. During the investigation, the suspect made a confessional statement to the commission of the said crime. “Investigation is still ongoing to apprehend other fleeing suspects in a bid to recover their operational weapons.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com