TOSIN OYEDIRAN writes on the endless suffering of retirees many of whom die waiting for entitlements as state governments turn a deaf ear to their pleas Retiring from public service in Nigeria can no longer be accentuated with delight and joy, as the plights of retirees in the hands of the three tiers of government continuously keep surfacing in different parts of the country. The representation of retirees’ agonies in various media keeps getting scary, making concerned citizens and prospective public servants launder fear over the ill-treatment retirees are subjected to – people who spent the better years of their lives in active service. Moved by the suffering of the retirees, the House of Representatives on October 7 2020  moved to criminalise delay in pension payment to retirees among other proposals in the Pension Reform (Amendment) Bill, 2020, and sponsored by a member from Ogun State, Mr Jimoh Aremu. The House sought three-year imprisonment or N2m fine for any Pension Fund Administrator or Custodian who failed to release the due pension to an account holder immediately after retirement, after the approval by the National Pension Commission. Almost two years later, retirees in different sectors told our correspondent  that the bill was ‘beautiful charade.’ The feedback uniformly stated it as a good move that failed before it began, as a result a number of Nigerian factors, some of them said. On the event of Workers’ Day 2022, a group of retired workers, better put, retirees who should have their heads rested and hearts devoid of worries instead took to the streets to protest unpaid retirement benefits in some states of the federation. A group of retired workers that left the service of the Osun State Government on the Contributory Pension Scheme protested their unpaid retirement benefits on Workers’ Day 2022 – a day meant to celebrate them. Addressing journalists, the Chairman of the Joint Forum of Contributory Pensioners in Osun State, Gbenga Oyadare, said retirees, having been deprived of their retirement benefits, were terribly suffering from abject poverty. “Government should prioritise half salary arrears payment of contributory pensioners to serve as a veritable source of income for the past six years without earning anything. Government should urgently pay all the various deductions owed to the contributory pensioners. In the same vein, workers in Rivers State celebrated Workers’ Day 2022 were in black attires to mourn dead pensioners who retired from the state civil service but passed on while waiting for their gratuities, pension arrears, and other benefits. The workers gathered at the Isaac Boro Park, the venue of this year’s Workers’ Day celebration in Port Harcourt, where the state NLC Chairperson, Mrs. Beatrice Itubo, slammed the state government over its refusal to pay pensioners their gratuities, pension’s arrears, and other workers benefits. “Retirees have continued to die in dozens, without the government showing any concern or empathy. It is shameful, to say the least, that a government that prides itself as a responsible government will allow people who devoted the better part of their lives to working for the state to turn to fast and prayers in public before realising that these people need the little benefit to stay alive longer,” Itubo stated. “If you go to the pension union and see the number of obituaries there, you will really weep for the pensioners,” added. The more we look into the plight of retirees, the uglier the things we see. Also, no fewer than 5,300 retired primary school teachers and the next-of-kin of deceased teachers in Akwa Ibom State protested non-payment of their pensions estimated at N28bn on January 8, 2022, that The leader of widows/next-of-kin of deceased teachers in the state, Mr Benjamin Benson, spoke with our correspondent and said it was the responsibility of the local government to pay but it had no access to the fund because the state government managed it. “For pensioners in the state civil service, former governor, Godswill Akpabio, paid up to 2015, and from that time till now, one would have expected that in the seventh year of Udom Emmanuel’s administration, having received the Paris Club Refunds, he should have paid at least up to 2019 or 2020 but had only managed to pay just one year. “For the retired primary school teachers and next-of-kin of deceased teachers, Akpabio paid up to 2010. Since this administration came on board, it is expected that it should have continued from 2010 to whatever year it could. Before 2010, there was a spill-over of people who did not process their papers. It rains everywhere obviously as retired civil servants in Abia protested the non-payment of pensions and gratuities in April 2022. Under the aegis of Concerned Abia Pensioners, the aged retirees said they embarked on a two-day state-wide protest to demand the payment of their 38 months of pension arrears, 20 years of non-payment of gratuities, and non-harmonisation of pensions from 1998 to 2010 by the state government. The group coordinator, Emeka Okezie, said even when they were paid, it was a quarter of their salaries, adding, “We have no money to buy drugs, especially our diabetic and hypertensive pensioners.” “We have children to look after, especially those in the universities. We are retired and don’t have any work to do. We are only looking up to God and don’t know where we are heading. We are asking the state government to help us before we all die,” he said. Must the sweat of the labourer dry off before the payment of the wages, and on the extreme, must they die? Hundreds of retired local government workers and primary school teachers blocked the Delta State Government House entry in Asaba in protest against what they described as wickedness on the part of the government over the non-payment of their gratuities and pensions on March 11, 2022. The Chairman, Local Government Retirees, A. O. Mode; stated that they had not been paid their gratuities and pensions since 2014. He stated, “As of November 2020, the government owed the retirees over N51bn accrued rights. “There is an unremitted deduction of N5.9bn to the Bureau of Local Government Pension by ALGON during the era of non-payment of salaries between 2015 and 2017.” Sadly, three retirees collapsed during the protest and were rushed to an undisclosed hospital.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com