A group called the coalition of All Progressive Congress Support Groups in Sokoto State has demanded the total cancellation of governorship primaries held in the state. The coalition in a press briefing at the press centre, signed by the chairman, Mal Isah Jabi, and the secretary of the group, Bashar Binji, rejected the results which it described as pre-arranged by some group of party leaders in the state. The group, however, vowed to challenge the outcome of the results of the primary in the law court if nothing is done by the leadership of the party to organise a fresh primary in the state. It said, “We have been compelled to address the press following the recent governorship primaries of the All Progressives Congress in Sokoto State which cannot be said to be credible and transparent. “For as far as we are concerned, the process isn’t only a rape on democracy, but also a complete charade orchestrated by enemies of democracy to achieve their selfish goals in a desperate attempt to impose an unwanted candidate against the wishes of the popular masses. “For record emphasis, we wish to categorically state that the primaries of Thursday, 26 May 2022, was from its onset a monumental manipulation by some party leaders in the state to favour the candidature of a certain aspirant by using personal security details and thugs loyal to a particular party leader to intimidate delegates in order to vote for their preferred aspirant, while delegates who appeared to be not dancing to their tune were chased and assaulted out of the venue and even the other three gubernatorial aspirants were only lucky to have escaped after being attacked by political thugs, to the adore of the state party leaders. “The venue of the primaries was initially set to frustrate the comfort of delegates in order to give way for a corrupt exercise. The state APC secretariat was deliberately fixed for the election process quite knowing the fact that it lacks space and security for the conduct of a successful election, and very unsuitable for such activity. “Our suspicions were later confirmed when officials conducting the election intentionally switched off power while delegates were casting votes in the middle of the night and left the venue in total darkness for very long period of time” The group however said that based on the aforementioned, the members of the coalition of APC Support Groups hereby disagree in totality with the outcome of the exercise and insist it must be cancelled for the interest of justice and fair play. “We are calling on the APC National Chairman, the APC National Working Committee, and all relevant authorities concern to declare the APC gubernatorial Primaries held in Sokoto as illegal, null and void, and ensure justice comes into play in order to avoid the possibilities of repeating the mistake of 2019,” the group demanded. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com