The former Minister of Transportation and presidential aspirant under the All Progressives Congress, Rotimi Amaechi, on Friday said he will run an all-inclusive government if given the chance to succeed the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.) in 2023. The former Rivers State Governor stated this during a consultative visit to the Kogi State Governor, Yahaya Bello, and delegates of the party at the Government House, Lokoja, according to a statement released by his media office. Amaechi who hailed Bello as a fellow aspirant for the presidential ticket, however, said he (Amaechi) was most qualified to become the APC presidential candidate. He said, “This is the 28th state that I have visited in the course of my consultations. I’m not one of the aspirants, I am the leading aspirant in the party. Again, I welcome my friend Gov. Bello who wants to run. He is a young man, he is entitled to run for the office of the President but I have more experience in governance and leadership roles than him. “I will carry everybody along. To appoint the Minister coming from Kogi, I will come to you people and allow you to nominate whom you want. The reason for that is to get everybody involved so that you can approach your Minister and your Minister will know that he is responsible to you. “Pls don’t vote for anybody else, vote for me. As Speaker, I was Chairman of Speakers’ Forum. As Governor, I was the Chairman of Governors’ Forum twice, as DG of President Buhari Campaign, I managed everybody, I managed the campaign, that’s experience. “And at the end of the day, we elected President Buhari. The first time in Nigeria that we removed an incumbent government. So we were determined as we are determined now.” Responding, Governor Bell, who was represented by his Deputy, Edward Onoja, welcomed his co-aspirant, saying, “Your Excellency, I was very elated when on the day of your Thanksgiving/ declaration you physically showed your strength and stamina by running round the field. “No doubt, the next President of Nigeria will come to the table with physical and mental strength. We believe that God will give Nigeria the best product that can secure, unite and foster peace in the country. “We appreciate that you even remembered coming to Kogi State. To have gone round 28 States, it shows stamina, it shows strength. We wish you well.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com