The Governor of Ekiti State and Chairman of the Nigerian Governors’ Forum, Dr. Kayode Fayemi, on Thursday, said the desire to build a prosperous nation is one of the reasons why he was running for the 2023 presidency. He also said that the presidency of Nigeria should not be for money-bag politicians. Fayemi stated this while canvassing for votes from delegates of All Progressives Congress in Kaduna State ahead of the party’s primary slated for May 28. The Ekiti State helmsman, who is also a presidential aspirant on the platform of the APC, said he was in the state to solicit votes from the delegates. He told the delegates that he had the capacity and the road map to transform the security situation in the country. “I am a bridge-builder. I am a unifier. This is a visit to say ‘hello’ and share my vision and leave you to be the judge of who to pilot the new Nigeria that we are yearning for,” he said. The governor, who said he is not a money bag politician, said that as a student of history, the nation’s coveted job had never been entrusted to money bag politicians. He said that the nation’s presidency should not be about money bags, adding that those who had occupied the seats in the past weren’t money bag politicians. The governor said that the “late Tafawa Balewa was a teacher, so also was the late Shehu Shagari and you know Obasanjo came out of prison with N100,000 in his bank account.” On his part, Nasir El-Rufai described the presidential aspirant as a man of integrity, who had assisted the state immensely when he was Minister of Solid Mineral Resources. El-Rufai said the first-ever Steel Rolling Mill in Kaduna state was courtesy of Fayemi, adding that as one he knew for over 20 years ago, he was eminently qualified to lead the country. He urged the delegates to do the right thing on the day of the party’s presidential primary scheduled for May 28. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com