On June 9, 2016, an Abuja-based businessman, Desmond Nunugwo, died barely 24-hours after being taken into custody by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission on allegations of defrauding a complainant of N91m. Five years later, the Community Court of Justice of the Economic Community of West African States found the Federal Government liable for his death and ordered it to pay N20m as compensation to the deceased’s family. His brother, Peter, states GODFREY GEORGE how the family feels about the judgment What is your relationship with the deceased? My name is Peter Nunugwo. I am the elder brother to Desmond, who died in the EFCC custody on June 9, 2016. Desmond was 47 years old when he died. He used to work at the Defence Headquarters, Ship House, Area 10, Abuja. Can you recount what happened on the day he was arrested by the EFCC? In the morning, he went to work. After that, he went to school to collect his four-year-old child and dropped him at home before proceeding to see his lawyer and friend, Chinedu. They were together when one Mrs Uloma called Desmond to ask after his whereabouts. Desmond told her where he was and she said she was coming to see him for them to discuss. He gave her the street address and room number and told Uloma to simply call him when she arrived. She even playfully said he should keep some of the stuff he was eating for her to share when she comes. She called Desmond after a few minutes to say she had arrived and he went out to pick her, not knowing that she came with some EFCC officials in a Hilux van. This was what the lawyer, Chinedu, told us. What relationship did your brother have with Uloma? It’s like they knew themselves before that time. Later on, we got to know they were business associates. What happened when Desmond came down to pick her up? As soon as he got downstairs, the EFCC officials pounced on him, handcuffed him and asked for his car key. He lied that it was upstairs, where Chinedu was, whereas it was in his pocket. He wanted to alert the lawyer to enable him to know what was happening. They (EFCC operatives) followed him up and took him back down. As they got down, he brought out his car key from his pocket and they marvelled. The lawyer confirmed that the EFCC operatives hit him and the lawyer had to warn them not to do that. They didn’t listen. They just whisked him away. Why didn’t the lawyer follow them to the office? He said he was warned by the EFCC operatives not to follow them that evening, because they were going to break their fast. They asked him to come the next day. This was around 5pm. By 3am the following day, they pronounced him dead. He wasn’t sick. He was a boy who lived with me in Abuja here for almost seven years, and he never complained about sickness or anything except regular malaria that is endemic in Nigeria. What was the offence the EFCC said he committed? That is what we don’t know. They said he had a stockfish business somewhere in Aba or so, of which I didn’t get the picture clearly. They then said he used the business to defraud Uloma to the tune of N91m. As I speak to you, till date nobody has seen this Uloma of a lady. Did you visit the EFCC when you learnt of Desmond’s death? My elder brother, my late sister, some of Desmond’s friends and I went to the EFCC office to ask them what transpired in those hours that would lead to my brother’s death, they said he complained of discomfort and slumped all of a sudden and passed away before he was taken to hospital. The annoying aspect of this was that when they took him to hospital – or was it a mortuary – they didn’t inform any member of the management. They didn’t even tell the family members why he was arrested nor did they allow the family members to follow them. When we spoke to the spokesman for the commission, to tell us what his offence was, he said Desmond was running about five bank accounts. This was investigated and it showed that Desmond did not do any of these things. The spokesman said so when we met him face-to-face. Did you report to the authorities? Of course, we did. We went to so many places. We went to Amnesty International in Maitama, Abuja. They staged protests to demand justice for my brother. We also went to the office of the Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami (SAN), and spoke to him about the matter. Malami was sobbing as we spoke to him. He said he would never compromise justice in the matter. However, on the date he gave us to come back to see him, we didn’t see him again. They then referred us to the Force CID in Area 10. We were having a meeting with the EFCC officials and the National Hospital, where his corpse was deposited. We went to the National Assembly and met with Ike Ekweremadu over this matter. He is aware. The senator representing our constituency, Mbano North, Imo State, then was also aware. Almost every week, we were in meetings talking about how an autopsy could be done. This is why the case lingered for almost five years. He stayed in the mortuary for years before he was buried just two years ago. In the end, they later conducted the autopsy at the dying minute. Someone was brought from Ibadan to handle the autopsy, which showed that Desmond died of hypertension or so. I was and I am still not satisfied with that autopsy. The worst part of it was that they labelled him a fraudster who defrauded someone of the sum of N91m. We are still challenging them to show us that Uloma whom he defrauded. When was he buried? He was buried after the autopsy. We handed everything over to God. He was in the mortuary for four years. The EFCC was the one paying the mortuary bills. They handed the corpse to us just two years ago. I just cannot remember the exact day. At what point did you sue the EFCC to the ECOWAS court? My sisters, Elizabeth and the late Rose, on seeing how the case was going in Nigeria, discovered that the case was not being handled fairly, so they filed a suit before an ECOWAS court from their base in Germany to demand justice. What happened to Desmond’s wife and kid? The wife, out of frustration that time, because the case lingered for so long, left her son with her elder sister and fled the country. She wasn’t even around when we buried the husband. You need to see the way everybody wept at the cemetery when the lad was bidding his father farewell. How did you receive the news from the ECOWAS court? It was my sister, Elizabeth, who is based in Germany that called me about three days ago that the court has finally given us justice over the case, and I was so impressed by the news. I didn’t even know they had gone so far. How do you intend to get the compensation? The court has given him justice and asked the Nigerian government to pay compensation. All I can say is that I am happy. The Nigerian government must go and denounce the name ‘fraudster’ they labelled him with. Even after telling him he worked in the Defence House and had also served about five ministers, they refused to listen even after producing his ID card. He even requested that they take him to the office to confirm, but they refused. They should remove that label and do as the court ruled.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com