FORMER presidential adviser and co-convener of the National Consultative Forum, Prof. Pat Utomi, has said the urgency of a constitutional reform in Nigeria cannot be overstated. Utomi stated this on Tuesday during a press conference held in Lagos, adding that Nigeria is at a crossroads even as the 2023 elections draw close. He disclosed that the NCF in conjunction with the Nigerian Political Summit Group had set up a committee to draft a new constitution to place in the public arena for debate in a bid to provide hope to citizens. He said, “Last year, we at the NCF in conjunction with the Nigerian Political Summit Group, set up a committee to go to work on drafting a new constitution to place in the public arena for debate. With leadership from Olisa Agbakoba, Hakeem Baba Ahmed and Rev. Fr George Ehusani and Senator Mike Ajegbo, we plan to provide hope to a people on the verge of despair and give our country a chance to rise up again. “Our primary goal is to hear the voices of all, president, vice president, opposition, faith leaders and royal fathers, youths and the grassroots. National unity in shared goals is the prime driver of our motives. “There is no question now with the state of anomie that we have been plunged into, the economic reversals we suffer, which have made unemployment our emblem and poverty capital of the world our title, about the imperative of carrying out surgery on the document and agreement of how we associate. The urgency of constitutional reform cannot be overstated.” Utomi added that there is the need for devolution of powers and greater accountability in public office. “Where we are agreed that democracy is our way, our conversation should ensure an electoral commission that is selected in a way that assures its fairness and making sure that the tyrannies of majorities are checked in minority rights protection, basic fairness and accommodation of one another, respecting the universal and inalienable dignity of the human person held sacred and codified into the document of transfer of personal rights and liberties we call a constitution,” he added.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com