BORNO State, Babagana Zulum, has been presented with a cheque of N50m which was raised by groups for the purchase of expression of interest and nomination forms. The groups began contributing the sum a week ago, with some members donating as low as N1,000 for the governor’s re-election. The spokesman for the coalition, Alhaji Awaji Bukar, said the gesture was to convey their appreciation to Zulum for his purposeful leadership to the people of the state. According to a statement on the official Facebook page of the governor, the donations came from many registered members of over 179 clubs, associations and professional bodies across the state. The statement read in part, “The Zulum administration has, in three years, recorded more than 600 capital projects and introduced far-reaching policies and programmes that included ongoing resettlement of internally displaced persons and refugees in more than 10,000 newly built houses and thousands of rehabilitated homes.” Zulum, in his response, expressed gratitude for the confidence reposed in him by the groups and said he was particularly impressed with those who gave N1,000 from their meagre resources. “The governor assured the groups that his administration, if elected for a second term, would construct more infrastructures and invest far more in commerce, vocational education, job, wealth creation and so on. “Zulum also noted that with the increased stability across the state, the enormous amount spent on providing livelihood to the vulnerable would be channelled to providing developmental projects.” The Borno State Chairman of the All Progressives Congress, Ali Bukar Dalori, who also addressed the groups, commended them for their sacrifices and for identifying with the party in the state. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com