I hope you are able to spot the error. Or you believe the expression, ‘I’m in high spirit’, is 100 percent correct? No, it harbours a common error. The problem with it is that the writer has thrown away the ‘s’ that should end ‘spirit’. The idiom, which means a lively mood, is ‘high spirits’, not ‘high spirit’.  Like many other idioms, it is a fixed expression that should not be manipulated. As a matter of fact, inserting ‘a’ before ‘high’ will still not make the expression error-free. That is, to be in a high spirit, which one might be tempted to see as a solution, does not fly as far as the idiom is concerned. Idioms are fixed expressions that should, as much as possible, be used in their original forms. So, study these: She was in high spirit when we got to her office. (Wrong) She was in a high spirit when we got to her office. (Wrong) She was in high spirits when we got to her office. (Correct) I can’t explain the reason: I’m just in high spirit today. (Wrong) I can’t explain the reason: I’m just in a high spirit today. (Wrong) I can’t explain the reason: I’m just in high spirits today. (Correct) Let’s add a few other idioms with a similar plural form. They include call it quits (not quit), on the grounds that (not on the ground that), to be at crossroads (not to be at crossroad), in a shambles (not in a shamble), and at loggerheads (not at loggerhead). Examples: I am fed up. I’m calling it quit. (Wrong) I am fed up. I’m calling it quits. (Correct) He was sacked on the ground that he mismanaged the company’s resources. (Wrong) He was sacked on the grounds that he mismanaged the company’s resources. (Correct) This is unfair. They left the place in shamble. (Wrong) This is unfair. They left the place in a shamble. (Wrong) This is unfair. They left the place in a shambles. (Correct) We are at a crossroad. We just have to be very careful. (Wrong) We are at a crossroads. We just have to be very careful. (Correct) The couple are at loggerhead again. (Wrong) The couple are at loggerheads again. (Correct) Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com