A real estate entrepreneur and businessman, Adekunle Ibrahim, has stated that it is very easy to become a homeowner in Nigeria. The Chief Executive Officer of Evermark Homes and Properties, a growing real estate firm said, “Despite hyperinflation ravaging the country, it is very easy to become a homeowner in Nigeria. “The major challenge we have in Nigeria at the moment is hyperinflation rates which have led to a cut-throat cost of building materials. Many companies have had to close shops as a result of this, but our driving force and consistency persist. Other challenges include government policies and tax rates from the government which are dire, as we are often charged more than we actually earn. However, such problems could be solved by doing things right. Ibrahim, who spoke to pressmen during the unveiling of his company’s new logo, said, “The first step is identifying a trusted real estate company like Evermark Homes. Secondly, affordable and flexible payment plans in real estate avail everyone the opportunity to navigate the cost of owning one. “One of the major reasons why we embarked on this rebranding is because we have evolved from the ‘division 2’ real estate delivery to the premium service and luxury real estate delivery. “We have been at it since 2019 and we can say we have gotten to the peak because we have accomplished many of our goals which have now made Evermark Homes one of the champions in the Nigerian real estate business. This rebranding is a significance of our growth and now we are bolder than ever, all our clients should be expecting luxury, elegance, and premium services. “Our new logo signifies pillars – a very crucial device for structural integrity. The logo also represents faith and passion. “The representation of faith and passion in our logo, I think, is the important value it carries, because, in the past few years, we have done the impossible, especially in an unusual time when the world was going through a pandemic. Our driving force has been the faith that we had and the passion we have for what we do.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com