The governorship aspirant in Katsina State under the Peoples Redemption Party, Imran Jino, on Sunday declared that the party had better chances of emerging victorious in the 2023 general elections. He insisted that the party had more national spread, as he boasted of members across Nigeria. The governorship aspirant made the declaration in Katsina in an interview with journalists shortly after addressing party members on his political ambition. Imran added that, for instance, of the three Presidential aspirants of the party, two are from the Southern part of Nigeria, pointing out that the development only showed that PRP has its spread across Nigeria. He also revealed that party members were not leaving any stone unturned to ensure its victory both at the states and at National levels in 2023. Imran said, “PRP is a grassroots party and despite the fact it is also an old party,its membership are spread across Nigeria. For instance,we have three Presidential aspirants and two of them are from the South while the third one is from the North. “We have also ensured that all our aspirants both at the states and at the National levels ; whether for the Senate or for the House of Representatives or for the state House of Assembly and for the Governorship seats,are well qualified,competent and have human compassion so that when they win the election,they will make issues concerning the electorates their priority. “Nigerians have experienced both the APC and the PDP and they are disappointed .Their choice,of course ,is PRP ,the party they know is for the poor masses and has wefare programmes that will take care of the poor.” Imran said he was in the state’s governorship race to take care of the poor, insisting he would change the face of Governance if he is elected in 2023 as the state governor. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com