For those of you who know me well, I have been sick quite a lot recently. What is sickle cell disease?  Sickle cell anaemia is a disease where the normal red blood cells are round but for people living with sickle cell, theirs is the shape of a sickle and hence the name.  This means they do not have enough blood in their system for starters. The main symptoms of sickle cell disorder are anaemia and episodes of agonising, severe, intense, harrowing, extreme, chronic, excruciating and insufferable pain. The pain occurs when the red blood cells stick together, causing blockages in the small blood vessels.  The sickled red blood cell can stick or clot together at any time, without notice. Using my life as an example, one minute, I can talk, and I am well.  A few hours later, I am contacting my gist partner to say, ‘I am having a crisis and it is quite tormenting.’  My friends who know me well, know that I am not a hypochondriac.  I am not one who relishes being sick and wallowing in self-pity about being unwell.  One of the consultants who saw me, not long ago reminded me that I have not been admitted into hospital in the last three years.  For someone with sickle cell, that is a big deal.  It is not that I don’t have a crisis; I do but I know how to manage myself at home.  Managing myself at home is important to me. I appreciate my core friends because they are a small number of caring people.  I have never contacted one of them and got the reply, ‘so what is wrong with you again?’   Responses like that do come up for people with sickle cell.  It is therefore imperative that I don‘t get tired of explaining what sickle cell is as often as I can.   It was when all this was going on that I had a conversation with a friend who told me how it is for the average Nigerian. My friend told me how she was talking about me to another friend of hers, who lived in Nigeria and was diagnosed with sickle cell.  According to my friend, her friend who lives in Nigeria dare not be open and talk about sickle cell the way I do. My friend’s friend happens to be in the country, and she has a crisis.  Over here, she is expected to tell her medical team everything that she knows about her illness.  My friend’s friend found it so alien, due to where she came from.  The lady with sickle cell told my friend she most certainly does not go to any hospital and blab her mouth.  Abroad, it is by telling your doctor what happened before and after, so that they can have a better understanding of what sickle cell Anaemia is and research is conducted to know more. In the average African hospital, the medical teams can tell that the patient in front of them has sickle cell, but both the patient and doctor will not address the issue.  The patient could be extremely hostile towards the doctor for ‘pronouncing a death sentence,’ on them.  We therefore have a scenario where both are fooling each other because they both know the truth, but no one is willing to say it.  This stems from, if you confess negativity, it shall be so.  People sometimes forget that confessions sometimes shed light into a dark state of affairs. The society is such in Africa that when it comes to sickle cell, the truth is not disclosed.  Nigeria has the highest number of people living with sickle cell and still, the doctor will typically deal with the sickle cell patient with disdain.  The sickle cell patient is also not used to being treated well.  We therefore have family members who will perpetuate the lie, afterall denial is better than getting a solution.  This continues in school as well, in the community, society in general and taken all the way into relationships, whether male or female.  How do we solve this problem of not being truthful?  How will this matter not be prolonged?  How will these facts not continue, living a world of extending lies, when it comes to sickle cell? After discussing the matter furthermore with my friend, I told her I could not believe that we are still adopting this life of pretence.  The conversation with my friend left me puzzled as I was under a wrong assumption that sickle cell disease was nothing to be shy of but apparently so.  A doctor tells a patient to make sure he or she gets better, and yet the doctor knows that having a crisis is beyond the patient’s will-power.  By the time one is sick and in front of a doctor, it is about facing the fact before one.  This could be low blood level, can’t breathe well, need for oxygen, dehydration and need for fluids.  This is not the time for a doctor to say ‘get well,’ because they don’t want to talk about sickle cell. And yes, I have written about ‘confessions,’ that I make daily.  I make them and say them out loud every morning.  It’s about self-preservation.  When I am dealing with an illness that can rear its ugly head at any point in time, then I owe it to myself to do all I can to survive.  The decision to have a strong survival instinct, shows up in every area of my life and it means being conscious of what I eat, what I wear (clothing and shoes), what I sleep in, what I drink, where I go, when I travel, etc. Like I mentioned a few weeks ago, you can help someone with sickle cell, and it is not always about the money.  I have those who cannot be with me physically, and so they call.  I have those who understand that I cannot speak when I am unwell and so, pray for me.  I have those who are happy to buy the fruits I need.  I have those who will sing hymns for me. I have those who will cook for me.  I have those who will help to get prescriptions from the chemist.  Everyone who did what I could not do, at that time for me is precious to me If you would like to get in touch with me about this article or about sickle cell, do so, via email: t.dehinde@yahoo.com.  And do check out my blog:     https://www.dailylivingwithsicklecell.com/  My book on sickle cell – How To Live With Sickle Cell and my other books are available for purchase on www.amazon. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com