Men of the Delta State Police Command have arrested suspected armed robbers, during which they also recovered two assault rifles, locally fabricated cut-to-size guns, and cartridges. Police sources said that the arrest was effected on Friday night, May 27, 2022, as the Anti-Crime Patrol team attached to Ibusa Division carried out a routine patrol in conjunction with Ibusa Anti-Cult volunteers. PUNCH Metro gathered that during the operation, the patrol team arrested one Ekene Okonji, also known as Galaxy, said to be notorious for terrorising Ibusa community and its environs. Upon searching the suspect, one locally-made cut-to-size short gun and seven live cartridges were recovered. The police public relations officer for Delta State Command, DSP Bright Edafe, while confirming the incident said that the suspect was currently in custody as the investigation was ongoing. In another development, sequel to the restiveness over leadership tussle in the oil-producing Ugboren community of Sapele Local Government Area of Delta State, the Commissioner of Police for the state command, CP Ari Muhammed Ali, has directed the Sapele police division to carry out an intensive raid in the community and ensure that sanity was restored. Consequently, on Saturday, May 28, 2022, at about 1330hrs, combined teams of policemen attached to the Sapele Division and men of the Nigerian Army attached to the 91 Battalion, carried out an intensive raid in the community, including the community shrine. The PPRO affirmed that during the raid, two FNC assault rifles were recovered and two suspects arrested while measures had been put in place to forestall further breakdown of law and order in the area. Also, on Saturday, at about 1130hrs, the Command Raider operatives intercepted some hoodlums suspected to be cultists, while on investigation activities along Asaba-Benin Expressway in Okpanam. Our correspondent gathered that the suspects, on sighting the team, took to their heels but the team chased them, and in the process, arrested six of the suspects. Those nabbed were named as Sunday Destiny, Stephen Pius, and four others. One locally-made cut-to-size double barrel gun, six expended cartridges and one 9mm live ammunition were recovered from them. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com