The President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), on Tuesday, arrived in Madrid, the Spanish capital, at 10:00pm, Central European Summer Time. Buhari, who is visiting Spain on the invitation of his Spanish counterpart, Pedro Sanchez, will, as part of his 3-day stay, visit the Spanish monarch, King Felipe VI and Queen Letizia. According to an earlier statement signed by his Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Femi Adesina, “During his engagements with both leaders, the Nigerian President will discuss issues of mutual interest to both countries, which will expectedly result in the signing of Agreements and Memoranda of Understanding on a wide range of topics geared towards further enhancing the bilateral relations between the two nations. “Such areas include: Extradition and transfer of convicted persons, Mutual Legal Assistance, Cultural Matters, Cooperation towards fighting crime and enhancing security, as well as issues affecting dependants of diplomatic staff. “Also on the agenda are Cooperation on Energy, Trade and Investment, Transportation, Public Health and Sports Development. “The President will also be the Special Guest at an Investment Forum jointly organised by the Spanish Chamber of Commerce, the Ministry of Trade, and the Confederation of Employers where he will speak to the gathering of top members of the Spanish business community and their Nigerian counterparts on the investment opportunities in Nigeria and ways of expanding the volume of trade as well as further collaborating for the development of the economies of both countries.” The President is also leading a high-powered delegation consisting of the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Geoffrey Onyeama; Attorney General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami, SAN; Minister of Industry, Trade and Investment, Adeniyi Adebayo; Minister of Information and Culture, Lai Mohammed; Minister of Interior, Rauf Aregbesola; Minister of Youth and Sports Development, Sunday Dare; and the Minister of State for Health, Olorunnimbe Mamora. Other members of the delegation are the National Security Adviser, Maj-Gen Babagana Monguno (retd.);  Director-General, National Intelligence Agency, Ahmed Abubakar; and Chairman, Nigerians in Diaspora Commission, Abike Dabiri-Erewa. Buhari is expected back in the country on Friday, June 3, ahead of the presidential primary election of the All Progressives Congress. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com