Akwa Ibom State government has commended the efforts and visions of the World Bank and the French Development Agency in conceiving the Rural Access and Agricultural Marketing Project and its eventual take-off in the state. The State Commissioner of Agriculture and Natural Resources, Dr. Offiong Offor, made the commendation while speaking at the state-wide Stakeholders Consultation and Sensitisation Workshop which held at Ibom Hall, Uyo with the theme, “Rural Accessibility and Agro-Logistics: A Panacea for Socio-Economic Growth in Akwa Ibom State.” She said the programme would crystalise into the construction of over 500km rural roads, bridges, drainages, and boast rural development efforts of the state government. “I commend the World Bank and French Development Agency for their vision in conceiving this programme, which in no distant time would crystalize in the construction of 500km rural roads; construction of bridges and other cross – drainage structures as well as development of markets and agro – logistic centres across the state. “RAAMP would also galvanize all agricultural value chains, promote their marketing options and provide other ancillary opportunities that would add value to our primary agricultural produce. “This would enable our farmers to reduce the production cost, maximize profits and above all improve the general condition of lives across our rural communities,” the commissioner said. She added that the multiplier effects of RAAMP would “promote the infrastructural profile of our dear state, reinforce our industrialization potentials, grow agriculture from subsistence to business practice as well as create jobs and wealth for our youths”. While commending the State Project Monitoring Committee and the State Project Implementation Unit for their contributions, the commissioner lauded the initiatives of the state government in the payment of its counterpart contributions of N832m in 2018 for the take-off of the programme She said, “It must be emphasized that realising this feat has not been an easy task. The State Government had expressed interest in RAAMP since 2016,  got enlisted in 2017 and quickly paid N832 million as counterpart funds in 2018 to accelerate a prompt take-off of the project. “It is our hope, however, that further holdups that were responsible for delaying the project’s effectiveness have now become history so as to guarantee a hitch – free implementation of the project.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com