In this report, ’TANA AIYEJINA takes a look at how Glasgow Rangers defender Calvin Bassey has transformed into Nigeria’s most reliable defender after a trying time with the national team Alvin Bassey is Nigeria’s hottest football prospect as the moment, perhaps only behind Napoli striker Victor Osimhen, who’s caught the attention of some Europe’s biggest club sides, after an amazing season with the Italian side. The Glasgow Reangers defender has since this season grown into an important player for Giovanni van Bronckhorst’s side, not only playing in his traditional left-back role, but also in central defence. A mainstay in The Gers squad, Bassey put in a master-class of a performance on May 18 in Seville in the Europa Cup final defeat to Eintracht Frankfurt, with top sides, including English giants Chelsea, reportedly tracking him. Frankfurt won the tie on penalties, after a 1-1 stalemate after 120 minutes of nerve-wracking football, with the Germans goalkeeper Kevin Trapp officially named man of the match, but Bassey got many votes with after a sterling display. The 22-year-old was calm, dependable and almost unbeatable, winning seven of his 11 duels on the night, four of his five aerially, won possession back nine times, and made three interceptions. Twice in extra-time he made two brilliant recovery runs when all before him were struggling with cramp. His performance before and during the final earned him a place in the Europa Team of The Season. Of course, it caught the eye of the critical British pundits. “Calvin Bassey has been absolutely phenomenal,” Rangers legend Ally McCoist said on BT Sport. “He has been a colossus this evening.” “Bassey has come so far, so quickly,” former Rangers striker Mark Hateley said on BBC Scotland’s Sportsound. “He’s established himself as a centre-half, wing-back, full-back. He’s put himself in a place right now where I imagine there’s a lot of clubs looking at him. And he’s still only 22-years-old. He has been outstanding. Ex-Manchester United defender Owen Hargreaves also heaped praises on the Nigerian, who was in Leicester City’s reserves two seasons ago. Steven Gerrard signed the defender on a four-year deal in 2020 with Rangers paying training compensation to Leicester. “Calvin Bassey, my word, what a performance,” Hargreaves told BT Sport. “That was astonishing, the energy and effort. Everything about his game was fantastic. “Anyone watching that will be thinking: ‘That’s the kind of player I want in my team’.” Rangers lost their league title to bitter rivals Celtic, but three days after his Europa final heroics, Bassey was back in action helping the Gers win the Scottish Cup after a 2-0 triumph over Hearts. The youngster wasn’t done yet; he continued his flying end to the season with Rangers at international level. As part of an under-strength Eagles side that lost 2-1 to Mexico at the AT&T Stadium in Dallas on Saturday night, the defender once again showed he could perform at the very top level with his marauding runs, pace and intelligence. Mexico, no doubt, were at home in Dallas, with the majority of the 52,000 spectators rooting for El Tri. And they deservedly took the lead after 13 minutes when Cruz Azul forward  Santiago Gimenez clotted home past goalkeeper Francis Uzoho. Bassey, played as a wing-back, had other ideas. Less than 10 minutes into the second period, the Eagles drew level, thanks to Bassey’s delivery. He drove from 15 yards inside his own half into an attacking position, 30 yards from goal down the left-wing, before curling in a superb in-swinger into the six-yard box for Feyenoord striker Cyriel Dessers to nod in for his first goal in two games for the Eagles. Captain William Troost-Ekong’s own goal denied the three-time African champions a better result, but Bassey would have caught the fancy of Portuguese Jose Peseiro, who was taking charge of the squad for the first time. The Scottish and Nigerian media celebrated the emerging defence marshal. But in truth, Bassey’s first attempt at international football wasn’t rosy. Just like every other footballer, Bassey looked forward to making his international debut, but born in Aosta, Italy to Nigerian parents, the versatile defender was eligible to represent the Italians, England and Nigeria. But he chose Nigeria ahead of the other two options and was handed his debut invitation by Gernot Rohr, the former Super Eagles coach, for the 2022 World Cup qualifying double-header group fixture against Central African Republic. The centre-back, however, could only watch from the bench as the Eagles shockingly crumbled 1-0 to lowly CAR in Lagos, the first time the national team would lose a World Cup qualifier at home in 40 years. It was definitely not the best way to start an international career in football. In the reverse fixture in Yaoundé, Cameroon, the Eagles exacted revenge on the minnows, winning 2-0, but again, Bassey wasn’t considered for a role on the pitch by Franco-German Rohr. He finally got his chance under interim coach Austin Eguavoen during the play-off for the World Cup in Qatar against fierce rivals Ghana, coming on as a second-half substitute for FC Porto left-back Zaidu Sanusi in the 64th minute and helping the Eagles keep a clean sheet in the first leg match at Baba Yara Sports Stadium in Kumasi. “It was an honour to represent this great nation,” Bassey said as quoted by Scottish Daily Express. But he admitted the sweltering weather conditions were challenging. “Playing in Africa is a lot more physical, it’s just adjusting to the environment, the pitch, the weather, and it’s harder to breathe so it’s just adjusting to it.” Bassey started the reverse fixture in Abuja but had problems recovering after overlapping, and it was evident the weather took its toll on the lad as the Ghanaians booked their ticket to Qatar on the away-goal rule after a 1-1 stalemate. He was pulled off for striker Sadiq Umar in the 88th minute, as Eguavoen searched for the elusive winning goal. Former Eagles forward Daniel Amokachi criticised Bassey for a lack of fitness after the game. “Calvin Bassey was exhausted after the first half and you could see that he always had his hand on his waist each time. “I don’t know why he stayed on for that long… And this is what you get when you have 99 per cent of your players born overseas.” The versatile defender hinted on his career transformation, saying his Rangers teammates and the technical bench helped him grow as a player. “I thank my teammates. It’s not a one-man team, each and every one of them helps me get better every day to get me where I am,” Bassey said. “And the manager and the coaching staff to trust me and push me. I can’t thank my teammates enough.” Former Aston Villa striker Gabriel Agbonlahor, who has a Nigerian father but rejected the Eagles for England, believes it’s just a matter of time before Bassey quits Rangers for bigger challenges. “I don’t think he will [extend his contract at Rangers], to be honest,” the 35-year-old told Football Insider. “The problem with Rangers and Celtic is they can’t pay the money that teams in the Premier League can. “What can Rangers offer Bassey? That’s the issue. He could probably get double the money at Aston Villa. I’m sure he would be reluctant to sign a new contract and see what is out there for him, to be honest. “There will be clubs out there for him, 1000 per cent. He’s quick, calm on the ball, strong, and good in the air. I’d take him at Aston Villa tomorrow. A lot of clubs in the Premier League will look at him. “I’m surprised that Leicester let him go, to be honest. That’s very strange.” Recently, Bassey commented on his future and insisted he was focused at Rangers. “I just want to keep my head down and keep pushing hard,” Bassey was quoted as saying by  Scotsman. “I’m focused here. I’m here and I’m ready to get ready to come here for pre-season and be fitter than I was last pre-season and ready to see what next season holds for me and the boys.” Whether he remains at Ibrox or not as dealings in the transfer market intensifies, Bassey, with his recent outings at club and country levels, has proven he can be the real deal, the next big thing in Nigerian football, the rock-solid defence marshal the Eagles have lacked in a long while, in the coming years.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com