The death toll in the violence that erupted in Lukshi, Yelwa Tsakani and Kusu communities in Bauchi Local Government Area of Bauchi State on Friday night, has increased to three. The state governor, Bala Mohammed, who disclosed this when he went on an assessment and sympathy visit to the affected areas on Sunday, condemned the violence. The governor visited the troubled areas in company with the Speaker of the State Assembly, Abubakar Suleiman; the Commissioner of Police, Umar Sanda; Director of the Department of State Services, and other top security heads and government officials. He described the incident as the handwork of outsiders who are envious of the peace enjoyed in the state. “I was attending the PDP national convention in Abuja where l lost gallantly when the Commissioner of Police called me. I have also lost here too because l have not been happy as a result of this crisis,” he said. He recalled that three weeks ago, there was a crisis in Gudun Hausawa area of the state which forced the government to impose a curfew. Mohammed said that the 24 hour curfew imposed on Yelwa areas of the state would be relaxed if the security situation improved. He said the state has been known as the most peaceful in the north and since he assumed office, he has given the security agencies the necessary support to sustain the peace in the state. He called on the police and other security agencies to ensure that the perpetrators of the crisis in Yelwa Tsakani, Lukshi and Kusu are arrested and brought to book, warning that his administration would not tolerate any act of lawlessness. The governor promised to build a police station in the area to forestall the killing of innocent people and burning of houses in the area and appealed to residents of the area to live in peace with one another for development to thrive. Earlier, Sanda disclosed that trouble started when one man identified as Mohammed Sabo, dropped his girlfriend in Lukshi when he was attacked by hoodlums.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com