Presidential aspirant under the platform of the New Nigeria People’s Party, Olufemi Ajadi, on Thursday, stepped down his bid, and has agreed to be the running mate of Rabiu Kwankwaso. Ajadi announced the stepping down before a mammoth crowd of party supporters and other Nigerians at Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. In a statement made available to The PUNCH on Thursday, Ajadi noted that his decision was a move to emancipate Nigeria from bad leadership. He said, “Ladies and gentlemen, that is why, I, Olufemi Ajadi Oguntoyinbo, having considered many things, and in the interest of our great party and beloved country, today, relinquish my presidential ambition, to support the presidential candidacy of Senator Rabiu Musa Kwankwaso. “It is all in the interest of our party and our country. You know Senator Kwakwanso is a great Nigerian, accomplished politician and administrator who will lift this country. “I pledge my loyalty at all times to the course of serving our party and country first as a presidential running mate and eventually vice president of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. The Ogun State chairman of the party, Olaposi Oginni, had earlier described Senator Rabiu Musa Kwankwaso as God-sent for the purpose of rescuing Nigeria. He also extolled Ajadi’s qualities, saying that all along he had been propagating the party positively, and also believed fervently about the unity of Nigeria. Oginni said, “Ajadi has arranged today’s event on how to move the party forward with the support of the national leader, Rabiu Musa Kwankwaso and with other South-West leaders.” He added that all the South-West members had met and reconciled with the aggrieved individuals to move the party forward. “In the meeting which all the southwest party chairmen held, we had unanimously agreed to maintain the Southwest present position in Nigeria’s government which is the position of Vice President of the nation,” Oginni said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com