The Bauchi State Governor and a Peoples Democratic Party presidential hopeful, Bala Mohammed, has said out of the 16 years the party spent in power, the North only served two years. “You can see that we are adequately short-changed and we demand that South allows us fulfil our tenure to catch up with them, a reason why I’m out for the Presidency.” Responding to agitations for presidency slot under the Peoples Democratic Party to move to the South, Senator Bala Muhammad declared that, of the 16 years rule by the PDP, the North had only two years. The Governor stated this in Kano, Sunday night, while meeting with the PDP delegates ahead of the oncoming primary elections. Mohammed lamented over the deteriorating situation of the Nigeria’s economy and the unfortunate security challenges that had set Nigeria behind when compared to countries like Niger and Ghana. He called on Nigerians to embrace peace and understanding to allow for development and progress of the country. The Governor also lamented that the allocations meant for states from the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation have not been disbursed for several months now and this had hindered a lot of development projects. “The South has been agitating for presidential slot without considering the fact that of the 16 years spent in power by the PDP, the North had only two years. “It started with Obasanjo spending eight years in power, a slot for the South, then Yar’Adua two years, a Northern slot and was followed by Jonathan who spent six years in a slot for the South. “As a result of this, we deserve the slot. Despite the fact that my people in Bauchi want me to continue for another second term as governor, with my wealth of experience over time where I have influenced a lot of development, I have no choice but to offer myself to serve my fatherland,” Muhammad said. He added, “Our Government in office would not forget those who helped us to power as we will introduce reward system where many of our party faithful would enjoy.” He said he would also ensure respect for everybody, through straightening unity, love and understanding amongst Nigerians, adding that this was what was missing among the citizenry today. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com