The All Progressives Congress Youth High-Level Working Group on youth inclusion in the 2023 general elections has commended the Lagos State Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, for his commitment to youth inclusion in politics. The group set up by the APC National Youth Leader, Dayo Israel, gave the commendation during a visit to Sanwo-Olu at the Lagos Governor’s Lodge in Abuja. The delegates, during the visit included, the Director-General, Nigeria Rural Electrification Agency, Mr Ahmad Salihijo; Commissioner, Federal Character Commission, Mrs Ginika Tor; Special Adviser to the President, Wole Aboderin; and Special Adviser to the Speaker, Ibrahim Hamza. This was disclosed in a statement, titled, ‘APC group commends Sanwo-Olu’s commitment to youth inclusion,’ signed by the Chief Press Secretary to the Governor, Gboyega Akosile, on Wednesday. The statement read in part, “The group during the visit presented the list of young aspirants who purchased the APC expression of interest and nomination forms from Lagos State for different offices ahead of the party’s primary elections to Governor Sanwo-Olu for his consideration. They also appealed to the governor to help encourage his colleagues in other APC-led states to do the same.” “Governor Sanwo-Olu, in his address said his administration would continue to support youth inclusion in politics and governance, adding that his government in the last three years had done a lot in the area of political appointments, science and technology, tourism, entertainment, jobs opportunities, entrepreneurship, tech start-up and empowerment for youths. “The governor, who noted that he was given an opportunity about 20 years ago when he was in his 30s to serve in the cabinet of former Lagos State Governor, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, encouraged youth to make good use of the unique opportunities given to them to serve in different positions at the party and government levels.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com