A one-time Personal Assistant to former Governor of Zamfara State, Ahmed Sani Yarima, and a staff of the National Assembly, Abdurrahman Mohammed Tunbido, has said the lawmakers representing Zamfara State at the National Assembly were not doing enough to address banditry affecting the state. Tunbido stated this when he addressed a press conference in Gusau on Sunday to declare his interest to contest for a seat in the House of Representatives for the Maru/Bungudu Federal Constituency. He said the Federal lawmakers representing the state at the National Assembly were not helping matters as far as insecurity challenges in the state were concerned. He maintained that they were not shouting or crying out whenever there was a banditry attack in Zamfara State. “They are supposed to cry out at the National Assembly if there is any banditry attack in Zamfara State so that their colleagues and the relevant authorities will come to the aid of the people of the state,” he said. Tunbido stressed that, if elected as a federal lawmaker, he would concentrate more on how to end banditry in the state as well as other states of the federation. “I will give full attention to how to end banditry activities in Zamfara State and other states in the country. “Every one of you knows that my constituency which is Maru/ Bungudu is one of the areas that are worst hit by banditry, as such, I will concentrate more on how to end banditry if elected to represent the area at the national assembly,” he said. He also added that he would sponsor a bill for the amnesty to the repentant bandits just like what former President Yar’adua did to the Niger Delta Militants. He said, “I will sponsor a bill to grant amnesty to those bandits who have repented so that other bandits will also repent”. “By so doing, it will come to a day whereby the issue of banditry will be a thing of the past.” Tunbido said he would give attention to the welfare of the teeming unemployed youths through job creation so that they would become self-employed. He expressed optimism that, if the youths were gainfully employed and self-reliant, the issue of insecurity would be reduced to the barest minimum. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com