A leader of the Association of Nigerian Licensed Customs Agents, Segun Oduntan, has blamed the crisis rocking the association for the inefficiency at the nation’s seaports. In a chat with our correspondent, the former TinCan Island chapter chairman of ANLCA said that if the association had been united, it would have been able to follow up with the Nigeria Customs Service to ensure prompt deployment of scanners. “We have had a collapsed system in the association for a very long time. The scanner at Onne was supposed to have been installed. The one at Tin Can has been there, but these are things that the association is supposed to be following up and engaging the Customs on a weekly, daily basis but we don’t have a frontier.” It will be recalled that the association has been in a lingering leadership crisis for over three years now. Speaking on the land borders reopening, he said that the move made no difference, noting that the entire thing was just political. “Things were still coming in when the borders were closed, so it doesn’t make sense if they say they are opening it now.” Oduntan, who expressed satisfaction with the Vehicles Identification Number proposed for the valuation of imported vehicles, admitted that the processes at the ports were more automated now than they were a few years ago. “Years back, there were lots of frustration and human interface. Too many things were not transparent, but an educated person can come into the business now and excel. “To some extent, our people are professionals. This is not a profession for mediocrities, so you have to be smart in order to excel in this profession. Now, if you want to clear a car, you already know how much you are to pay, and we as agents know what we are making and can work from the comfort of our homes,” he concluded.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com