One of the biggest reality TV shows in Africa, Big Brother Naija, has opened applications for the next set of participants in the season 7 edition. The show, which has produced winners like Mercy Eke (season 4), Laycon (season 5) and Whitemoney (season 6) has officially begun its audition for season 7. This was announced on the BBNaija official Instagram page on Sunday. The announcement read, “Biggie is calling you back home. #BBNaija Season 7 auditions are officially open “Are you the next Efe, Miracle, Mercy, Laycon or Whitemoney? This is your time to show Biggie what you’re all about.” Contestants are to visit the official Big Brother Naija website to apply as contestants. BBNaija is practically the most popular reality show in the country with many of its contestants going on to become celebrities The first season of the reality show aired in 2006 and was won by a scriptwriter and production assistant, Katung Aduwak, who went home with the grand prize of $100,000. There was, however, a gap of 11 years before the second season (See Gobe) of the show commenced on January 22, 2017. That season was eventually won by Warri, Delta State-born rapper, Efe Ejeba, who got the grand prize of N25m. In 2018, the third season (Double Wahala) followed and was won by a pilot, Miracle Igbokwe. Igbokwe got N25m, a brand new Hyundai Tuscon SUV, home appliances worth N3m and a trip for two to an exotic location, as well as a year’s supply of Pepsi and Aquafina water. The 2019 season, tagged ‘Pepper Dem’, was won by a video vixen and entrepreneur, Mercy Eke, who took home N30m, an Innoson SUV said to be worth N25m, a trip to Dubai and other prizes. The fifth season of the show was held in 2020 amidst the COVID-19 pandemic and was aptly tagged the ‘Lockdown Edition’. It was won by another rapper and graduate of the University of Lagos, Olamilekan Agbeleshe, aka Laycon, who took home N30m, an Innoson Motors SUV worth N30m, a two-bedroom apartment, a trip to Dublin, Ireland, and other prizes. Whitemoney won the last edition in 2021 and got N90m worth of prizes. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com