Nigerian strikers based in Europe had their scoring boots on again at the weekend, banging in the goals in the major leagues of Germany, Italy, Holland and Turkey, while others struggled to stay afloat in the topflight, writes ’TANA AIYEJINA Leicester duo vs Watford legion Samuel Kalu had a rare start as already relegated Watford were beaten 5-1 at Vicarage Road by Leicester City, who had Kelechi Iheanacho and Ademola Lookman on the bench, in the English Premier League on Sunday. Kalu joined from French side Bordeaux in January but has had to play bit part role in England. Oghenekaro Etebo came on in the 81st minute for Watford, while William Troost-Ekong was an unused substitute. Striker Emmanuel Dennis, the Hornets’ top scorer this season with 10 goals, was left out after copping a knee injury. Leicester were also without midfielder Wilfred Ndidi, who’s been ruled out for the rest of the season Special 20 for Awoniyi Former Liverpool forward Taiwo Awoniyi finished as Union Berlin’s leading scorer with a career-best 15 league goals and 20 overall after he grabbed a brace on the final day of the season in his side’s 3-2 win over Bochum on Saturday. With the win, Union climbed to fifth place with 57 points from 34 games – their highest placing ever – just a point behind fourth-place Leipzig, who occupied the Bundesliga’s final Champions League spot. Union started the day in sixth but knew if results went their way on the final day they would qualify for the more illustrious UEFA Europa League group stage rather than the UEFA Conference League. Grischa Prömel grabbed Union’s opener as early as the fifth minute, Awoniyi then made it 2-0 from the spot in the 25th minute, after VAR adjudged Bochum’s Robert Tesche had blocked the ball with his hand inside the box. Going into half-time amid a party atmosphere in the capital, Union looked set to climb the table again. Bochum – understrength and outplayed – looked completely out of the game, but they showed impressive character, though, and Simon Zoller scored on 55 minutes to make score 2-1, before Eduard Lowen equalised for the visitors in the 79th minute. As he has so often done this season, though, Awoniyi was on hand to steal the headlines. With three minutes to go he pounced on a loose ball, calmly played his way into the area and slotted home left-footed to send the Union fans wild. After finishing seventh to qualify for the UEFA Conference League last season, Union’s new highest-ever placing in the Bundesliga sees them qualify for the UEFA Europa League for the first time. Simon lose, Moffi off target Moses Simon was on the losing side with Nantes in the French Ligue 1, while Lorient striker Terem Moffi was substituted in the goalless stalemate against Bordeaux on Saturday. Ibrahima Kone came on for Moffi in the 69th minute of the clash as the draw helped Lorient survive relegation with a game left to play, fellow Nigerian Innocent Bonke was an unused substitute. Moffi has managed eight goals in 37 games this season. Simon was pulled off in the 72nd minute as eighth-place Lyon widened the gap with Nantes, who are ninth, to four points with a 3-2 win. Obi helps Salernitana Midfielder Joel Obi played a part as relegation-threatened Salernitana grabbed an invaluable point at Empoli as the Italians fight to avoid the drop. Okereke, Ebuehi relegated Before the game against Jose Mourinho’s men kicked off in Rome Saturday, Venezia’s demotion to Serie B was confirmed after Empoli earned a draw against Salernitana. Regardless, Venezia put up a fine display to pick up an away point against the Uefa Europe Conference League finalists. Heading into the fixture, AS Roma needed a win to boost their chances of qualifying for Europe next season, nevertheless, the visitors had other ideas. In just the second minute, the Venice-based outfit took a surprise lead after David Okereke headed Mattia Aramu’s cross past goalkeeper Rui Patricio for his seventh strike of the 2021/22 campaign. Venezia’s lead was threatened in the 32nd minute when Morocco international Sofian Kiyine was given his marching orders by referee Simone Sozza for a silly kick aimed at Pellegrini. Roma’s pressure paid off in the 76th minute when Eldor Shomurodov rifled his effort into the top of goalkeeper Niki Maeenpaeae’s net. After playing for 80 minutes, Okereke was replaced by Dennis Johnsen while his compatriot Tyronne Ebuehi was introduced for Domen Crnigoj at the same time. Osimhen increases Genoa woes Hardworking striker Victor Osimhen was on target in Napoli’s 3-0 win over relegation battling Genoa in the Serie A Sunday to bring his league goals tally to 14 in the Italian topflight and 18 overall. The 23-year-old grabbed the opener in the 32nd minute after being set up by Giovanni Di Lorenzo, to power home. Di Lorenzo then added the second in the 64th minute, before the departing Lorenzo Insigne added a third from the spot a minute later for third-place Napoli. Dessers’ goal not enough In-form forward Cyriel Dessers was on song again on Sunday but found himself on the losing side with Feyenoord against FC Twente at De Kuip. The one-cap Nigeria international scored in the 68th minute off an assist from Colombian Luis Sinisterra, but it ended a mere consolation as the visitors won 2-1, following two first half goals. Feyenoord remain third on the Dutch topflight table with 71 points, 10 behind second-place PSV Eindhoven. Overall, on-loan Dessers has an amazing 26-goal contribution – 20 goals, six assists – in  45 games for Feyenoord, and is the leading scoring in the Europa Conference League with 10 goals. His goals fired the Dutch side to the final of Europe’s third tier competition, against Jose Mourinho’s Roma. Okoye bids Rotterdam bye Goalkeeper Maduka Okoye was in between the sticks as Sparta Rotterdam escaped relegation on the final day of the season after a 3-1 win at Heracles. Okoye conceded 39 goals in 30 Eredivisie games to help Rotterdam avoid the drop, but after his last game against Heracles, he joins relegated Watford in the English Championship. Nwakaeme nets 13th goal It’s been a season to remember for Anthony Nwakaeme, the striker whose goals powered Trabzonspor to their first league title in 38 years.  The 33-year-old striker, who is yet to agree a new deal with the Turkish champions, powered home from the spot after score tied at 1-1 to help his side win 2-1 six minutes from time. Yusuf on losing side Little-known Royal Antwerp midfielder Alhassan Yusuf came on for  Pierre Dwomoh in the 62nd but could only watch as visitors Club Brugge claimed a 3-1 win to emerge champions of the Belgian First Division. The 21-year-old Yusuf, who was handed his debut invitation to the Super Eagles last week for the friendlies against Ecuador and Mexico, had previously starred for Swede side IFK Gothenburg Odey, Kehinde  in play-off battle Randers duo Stephen Odey and fellow countryman Tosin Kehinde started the Superliga Championship play-off 2-0 defeat against FC Copenhagen on Sunday in Denmark.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com