The Ebonyi State Police Command has announced the appointment of SP Chris Anyanwu as its new spokesman for the third time. The announcement is contained in a statement issued by the Deputy Police Public Relations Officer of the command, ASP Levi Philip, in Abakaliki on Monday. The News Agency of Nigeria reports that Anyanwu took over from SP Loveth Odah. The new PPRO holds a Master’s Degree in Business Administration and a Post-Graduate Diploma in Project Management Technology obtained from the Federal University of Technology, Owerri. “This is to notify the general public and all news media that Anyanwu is once again appointed the Police Public Relations Officer for (the) Ebonyi Police Command. “The new PPRO also possesses a Post-Graduate Diploma in Education from Othman Danfodio University, Sokoto, as well as a Higher National Diploma in Business Administration and Management from the Federal Polytechnic, Oko, in Anambra (State). “Anyanwu has served in various capacities as a police officer within and outside Nigeria, prominent among which is his participating in (the) United Nations African Union Hybrid Mission in Darfur, Sudan, twice,’’ the statement said. According to the statement, while Anyanwu was in the Police Command in Rivers State, he was an Admin Officer for the State CIID, Port-Harcourt, and Divisional Crime Officer in Isiokpo. “Anyanwu was also a Divisional Traffic Officer; Special Area Police Division, Rumuokoro; and Area Crime Officer 1 at Area Command, Oyigbo. “This will be the third time he is appointed PPRO in the Police Command of Ebonyi State. “Apart from that, he had earlier served as Divisional Police Officer in ‘B’ Division Kpirikpiri, Ishielu and Oshiri respectively. “He is happily married with children and enjoys reading/writing, playing tennis, scrabble and chess games,’’ the statement added. It urged the public to feel free to reach Anyanwu at the PPRO’s office or contact him on GSM numbers 08037739134, 07013440807 in times of distress and/or other official engagements. “The police is still your friend and welcomes genuine partnership and collaboration to reduce crime and criminality to the barest minimum in Ebonyi State, the ‘Salt of the Nation,’” the statement read. NAN