The Federal Government has assured that the TotalEnergies/NNPC Joint Venture Ikike project is going as planned. The Executive Secretary, the Nigerian Content and Development Monitoring Board, NCDMB, Engr. Simbi Wabote, gave the assurance while delivering his goodwill message at the TotalEnergies’ 60th anniversary in Nigeria celebrated over the weekend in Lagos. According to him, the firm was proceeding with the Ikike project, which was at the final stage. The clarification became important following speculations that the project was yet to be delivered as construction activities entered almost half of 2022. The firm had assured that the project would be delivered early this year. On TotalEnergies’ contribution in its 60 years in the country, Wabote said there was no basis for comparing the contributions of the French energy firm with those of other IOCs operating in the country. According to him, TotalEnergies is one of the IOCs that has kept faith with Nigeria in the last 60 years, having invested over $30bn into the country in the last eight years. He said, “For me as an executive secretary of the NCDMB, my job does not exist without investment. I use Total to challenge Shell, Chevron and ExxonMobil. So long as I have a job, Total, you are the winner.” “I celebrate you at 60, and enjoin you to remain with us. Stay with us because Nigeria loves Total,” he said. The trio- Shell, Chevron and ExxonMobil – have sold majority of their stakes in Nigeria’s upstream where they had been major players. The world is shifting from fossil fuel to cleaner energies. President, TotalEnergies E&P Nigeria, Nicholas Terraz, said it had been a thing of great pride, and a sense of achievement, to see the company grow over the years. “Embracing good values and developing a strong and sustainable corporate culture have made us a shining example among our industry peers today.” Terraz also confirmed that the firm was proceeding with the Ikike project, which was now at the final stage. “We have developed a number of projects over recent years and, of course, are in the final stages of the Ikike project.  Ikike is a key project for the affiliate to demonstrate the viability of tie-backs to existing fields.  A lot of progress has been made, but I know there are a lot of challenges as we near the end.  I am counting on the project team, and indeed all the affiliate, to apply yourselves to overcome these challenges and deliver the production safely.  As a company, we have shown a unique commitment to Nigeria. Indeed, the country remains at the heart of our strategy. Nigeria has a lot of potential, but as for Ikike, it is not always ‘plain sailing’, so we all have to perform at our best to continue the adventure,” he said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com