Ogun State, 08092445583: Church music is undiluted music that comes from our hearts and aligns with beliefs and teachings about God; it is the way a believer praises God and communicates with Him. Church music forms an integral arm of worship in the service. According to Wilson Dickson 1997; Adedeji 2001, Christian music has been defined as a generic term which encompasses all types of music with Christian texts. This includes all brands and categories of music consumed in Christendom, whether by the church, para-church or non-church organisation.” What does the Bible say about music? Colossians 3:16 say, ’Let the word of Christ dwell in you richly, teaching and admonishing one another in all wisdom, singing, Psalms and spirit-filled songs with thankfulness in your heart to God. The church at large should embrace the use of technology to enhance worship. It is a new way to connect and integrate the congregation and music in the church. Before I delve into this topic on Church music in the 21st century, there is a need to establish the facts about church music that has roots in the Bible. first and foremost, we should ask ourselves what is church music? There are a lot of definitions for church music, but according to Mrs Tolu Obajimi, a former organist and master of music at the Cathedral Church of Christ in Marina, Lagos, church music is the vehicle or tool for evangelism. It can also be seen as the place of music in God’s word without various denominations of Christians. With technology changing at a rapid pace in the 21st century, church music must tag along for the ride. The invention of Skype, YouTube, iTunes, Google, Apple Music, and Facebook, means music can be downloaded and, or, streamed through several platforms and our mode of listening to music is much wider. Music has played a significant role in the history of mankind and it will continue to grow in importance. According to Bob Kauflin, “Musicians serve their congregation by providing skillfully played, well prepared, sensitivity and arranged, and wisely chosen music that will enable people to cherish the word of God.” This motivation to serve helps keep musicians from pursuing the path of self-promotion and self-gratification. Christian music is music that has been written to express either personal or communal beliefs regarding Christian life and faith. We live in a world filled with innovations, church music should fit into modern-day life. Music should be appropriate to the audience and must agree with the scriptures. 21st-century music must have impacted positively on the church and not negatively as it is presently. Music in the church is to glorify God whether 21st century or not. I specifically observe there is a derailing trend from purity because of new styles. We should know how to communicate our music to the church collaborate with the choir, create and compose new music in line with the Bible and think critically of the impact of our choice of music on the congregation at large. In addition, with skills that are incredibly in the man in today’s fast-changing world, we should teach the Church new music through gadgets and various technological platforms. According to Rev. Alan Chamness, the traditional worship service is changing dramatically since the onset of technological advancement. Four skills are needed for 21st-century musicians, these are critical thinking (finding solution’s to problems); creativity thinking; collaboration (working with others); communication (sharing thoughts, questions, ideas and solutions). In conclusion, it was American writer, futurist, and businessman, Alvin Toffler (October 4, 1928 – June 27, 2016), who said the illiterate of the 21st century will not be those who cannot read or write but rather those who can learn to unlearn and relearn. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com