The Anambra State Governor, Prof. Chukwuma Soludo, has condemned the murder of the lawmaker representing Aguata II Constituency at the state House of Assembly, Okechukwu Okoye. Okoye and his aide, Cyril Chiegboka, were kidnapped while returning from a function last Sunday. In a statement on Saturday night, the governor’s media aide, Christian Aburime, described as “heartless” and “barbaric”, the gruesome murder of the lawmaker. The governor said it was with rude shock and deep sadness that the news of the murder came to him. He also condoled with the victim’s kinsmen in Isuofia, noting that it is probably the same criminal gang that attacked him and killed three policemen at Isuofia two years ago that is once again on the prowl. He said, “But they can never cow down Isuofia and Anambra State.” Soludo reassures Ndi Anambra of the government’s resolve and renewed determination with the security agencies to go all out against the criminals and ensure they are brought to justice. The governor also placed N10m reward for anyone or group that will avail valuable information that will lead to the immediate arrest of the perpetrators of the dastardly act, assuring that Anambra will soon be a hell for the criminals. The statement read in part, “Anambra will win against the forces of darkness. Ndi Anambra should brace up for the all-out war against the criminals. “Soludo condoles with his kinsmen of Isuofia, noting that it is probably the same criminal gang that attacked him and killed three policemen at Isuofia two years ago that are once again on the prowl. But they can never cow down Isuofia and Anambra state. “The governor is still in shock over the barbaric acts against his two kinsmen, vowing that the perpetrators, as well as all criminals operating in Anambra, must be decisively brought to book. “Governor Soludo has consequently placed N10m reward for anyone or group that will avail valuable information that will lead to the immediate arrest of the perpetrators of this dastardly act. Anambra will soon be hell for these criminals. “He wishes to reassure Ndi Anambra of the government’s resolve and renewed determination with the security agencies to go all out against the criminals and ensure they are brought to justice. “Anambra will win against the forces of darkness. Ndi Anambra should brace up for the all-out war against the criminals.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com