The National Working Committee of the All Progressives Congress confirmed on Saturday that it has set up various panels for its two-day screening of 1,693 aspirants ahead of the May 30 party primary. The development was disclosed by the APC National Organising Secretary, Sulaiman Argungu, shortly after the inauguration of chairmen and secretaries of the screening committees. “We have so far 145 governorship aspirants and we have constituted three panels to screen them. “Also, 351 aspirants have also partaken and returned the senatorial aspiration forms while we have 1,197 aspirants for the House of Representatives with 10 panels,” he revealed. Argungu further disclosed that the party has a set of guidelines in the aspirant assessment and verification forms that will be given to each committee for the screening. This is even as he noted that each of the panels put in place will be provided with collections of forms complete with names and expression of interest forms for guidance. “We expect that this work will be done between today and tomorrow as the previous speakers have said. These gentlemen are conversant with this type of job and we believe this is not going to be a big assignment for all of you. “We pray you will do justice to all the aspirants so that by 2023 we will have good credible candidates that are going to contest on the platform of our great party. “As we all know, with the love people have for the APC we also appreciate having credible leaders that will add value to the party in the 2023 election,” he said. The chairmen and secretaries of respective screening committees for the House of Representatives, Senate and Governorship candidates were inaugurated today in Abuja. The screening exercise continues at Fraser Suites in Central Business District on Sunday at 10.00 am. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com