Seyi, son of All Progressives Congress chieftain and presidential hopeful, Bola Tinubu, has said performance and not just smooth-sounding speeches define leadership. He made this known in a Facebook post on Wednesday with photos of his meeting with his 70-year-old father; and Lagos State Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu. Seyi said, “Yesterday (Tuesday), I sat with My leader and father, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu together with Mr Governor and my egbon, Babajide Sanwo-Olu. “I was repeatedly reminded by both mentors that leadership is defined by results, not attributes or words alone. “It goes without saying that, their records speak to their results. God bless them. #incomingpresidentofnigeria by God’s Grace #BAT23 #2ndtermiscoming #Lagos.” Tinubu, who was Lagos governor from 1999 to 2007, declared his presidential bid in January, and noted that it was a “lifelong ambition”. The APC leader’s former political associates including Vice-President, Yemi Osinbajo; and Ekiti State Governor, Kayode Fayemi, have also declared their intention to run for the exalted seat in Aso Villa. Aside from Osinbajo and Fayemi, other southerners in the APC presidential race include former Governor of Rivers State and Minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi; Minister of State for Education, Emeka Nwajiuba; Minister of Labour and Employment, Chris Ngige; Minister of Niger Delta Affairs, Godswill Akpabio; Ebonyi State Governor, Dave Umahi; former Imo State Governor, Rochas Okorocha; former Abia State Governor, Orji Kalu; and former Ogun State governor, Ibikunle Amosun. Kogi State Governor, Yahaya Bello, has also emerged from the north while Senate President, Ahmad Lawan, and some other northern aspirants have been reported to consider throwing their hats in the ring ahead of APC presidential primary later this month. Tinubu is also in the race with ex-governor of Ekiti State, Ayodele Fayose, of the Peoples Democratic Party. Other PDP aspirants include ex-Anambra State Governor, Peter Obi; media personality, Dele Momodu; former Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Pius Anyim; former Senate President, Bukola Saraki; ex-Vice-President Atiku Abubakar; Sokoto State Governor, Aminu Tambuwal; Bauchi State Governor, Bala Mohammed; amongst others. Both the PDP and the APC presidential primaries have been scheduled for the end of May while Nigerians watch with rapt keenness as the two prominent parties elect their flagbearers at their conventions in four weeks’ time. Whilst the APC pegged its Nomination and Expression of Interest Forms for N100m, the PDP sold its own for N40m. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com