Corporate News Approved as a member of the International Swaps and Derivatives Association (ISDA). Managing Partner Annabelle Huang named on Makinsey’s annual Top Women Innovators list. Product Development and Partnerships Partnered with The Dodge NFT and PleasrDAO to make NFTs more accessible. In the News Disruption Banking: Amber Group joins International Swaps and Derivatives Association; among one of the few global crypto players in ISDA. Yahoo Finance: First fractionalized NFT on tier 1 exchange. U.Today: Amber Group, PleasrDAO ready to launch DOG fractionalized NFT on Huobi. CoinGape: The Doge NFT, PleasrDAO and Amber Group partner Up to make NFTs more accessible. Cointelegraph: Crypto seen as the ‘future of money’ in inflation-mired countries. Mckinsey Website: The Committed Innovator: Women continuing to change the world. YouTube: Can cryptos fit in your retirement portfolio? Here’s how – Amber Group’s Sophia Shluger. Medium: Automated Market Makers (AMMs): Versioning up. Events and Media Appearances Managing Partner Annabelle Huang joined a panel discussion titled “Institutional Adoption of Cryptos – How fast and deep institutions are adopting the new asset class” by the FinTech Association Hong Kong.  Managing Partner Annabelle Huang joined Citigroup’s 9th Digital Money Symposium in a panel discussion on mainstreaming digital assets and building bridges between TradFi and DeFi.  CSO Dimitrios Kavvathas joined The Hong Kong Securities and Investment Institute’s webinar series and delivered two keynote speeches on “A New (Crypto-Enabled) Financial System”. Attended IFGS 2022 in London;  Europe Managing Director Sophia Shluger joined two-panel discussions: one on digital wealth management and the other one on the infrastructure of responsible innovation.  Europe Managing Director Sophia Shluger joined a panel discussion on “Unicorns In The Cryptosphere – How Blockchain Will Revolutionize The World” at the WILD3 Conference.  Sponsored the Paris Blockchain Week Summit 2022 and Europe Managing Director Sophia Shluger joined two panel discussions on “Financial markets & Web3” and “The Rise of Decentralized Finance”.  Europe Managing Director Sophia Shluger joined Group Futurista’s Future of Treasury Management Virtual Summit and delivered a keynote speech on “Digital Wealth: The Evolution of Value”.  Europe Managing Director Sophia Shluger joined a panel discussion titled “Investing in Digital Assets in an Institutional Context” hosted by Nordic Blockchain Association and Copenhagen Fintech Lab in Copenhagen.  Sponsored and attended Bitcoin 2022 in Miami by Bitcoin Magazine. Sponsored the 2022 Future Commerce in Taipei and Taiwan Regional Director John Lee joined a keynote session on digital wealth and a panel discussion session on angel investment. Taiwan Regional Director John Lee delivered a speech at Hackathon 3.0｜Solana Asia Series – Taiwan by EPOCHS.STUDIO.