Consultant physician and neurologist, Prof Shamsideen Ogun, talks to Emmanuel Ojo about the causes, management and treatment of Parkinson’s disease W hat is Parkinson’s disease? Parkinson’s disease is an illness of the middle or late age and usually, it is of insidious onset. It’s not like malaria that comes up acutely. It sets in slowly, gradually in middle age and it has four classical symptoms. They slow down totally. Someone who was active before, swinging the hands when walking, starts walking like an old man, taking more steps with loss of arm swings. What are the symptoms? It has four classical symptoms. There are what we call bradykinesia and hypokinesia. For bradykinesia, the movement becomes very slow; sufferers have minimal movement; and for hypokinesia, the pace at which they move is reduced. No need to bother much about the terminologies. Just know that for one, the pace slows down, and for the other, they just slow down in their movement. In addition to slowing down, they have flexed-bent posturing, which is the second symptom. It’s as if they are looking down. They bend their back, looking down and they also will have what is called a festinating gait. Festinating gait is better seen than described. It’s just like you are walking to the toilet and you are using your two toes at close range. Even from the sound of the steps heard, you can pick that the person has Parkinson’s disease. It is also called shuffling gait or festinant gait. Furthermore, persons with Parkinson’s have rigidity. They also have tremors. The tremors can affect the hand and affect the lips in some cases and those are tremors that occur at rest. They occur when they are at rest. When they want to use the arm, it disappears. It also disappears during sleep. But when you upset them, it can aggravate their weakness. Constipation is also a key feature. How common is the condition? The truth is that it could occur when one is above 50, usually between 50 and 65, though the frequency keeps changing. But averagely, one out of 200 will come down with Parkinson’s disease. Having said that, you can have it occurring in people who are young and some very extreme elderly people too, developing it late, however late it may be. So averagely, we can say one in 200. Can it be said that it is rare then? It’s not rare. One out of 200 people is not a rare case. Though, the frequency could have dropped now. Why is it named Parkinson? Does it have anything to do with the origin? Yes. It’s named after the person that first described it. His name is James Parkinson and he discovered it in 1817. What are the causes? We can say the causes are genetic and environmental. There are some genetic defects that run in some families. Can it be said that it is hereditary? It can be to some extent but as I said, it is multifactorial. It’s not just the gene alone. If one has the gene and other factors don’t set in, the person may not have it but the tendency is there. But if other factors that could trigger it come in, they make it manifest early enough. So, there are genetic factors and environmental factors. Then, for the environment, there are a host of factors, which are implicated. The typical Parkinson’s disease can sometimes be said to be idiopathic, meaning that the exact cause is not known, or cryptogenic of hidden cause. Be that as it may, there are other factors that can add to it. Age, on its own, is a risk factor. As one gets older, the tendency of getting the disease comes up. Exposure to herbicides and insecticides, hydrocarbons/fumes from generators can result in the development of the disease. People who drink from well water too, It’s also known to be high among them. People who have had repeated head injuries, like boxers. If you can remember Mohammed Alli. It is called Parkinson’s pugilistica or punch drunk syndrome. You know that Mohammed Alli received several punches to his head. It can also come from repeated headtrauma. What other risk factors are involved? Apart from the above-mentioned factors, there is what we call palliative Parkinson’s. It arises from infection in the brain. That is what affects the part of the brain responsible for this type of Parkinson’s. It is called encephalitis lethargica. After the Second World War, there were some epidemics of Parkinson’s because some soldiers had an infection of the brain. About two years later, they came back with some Parkinson-like symptoms. So they called it encephalitis lethargica. There are also conditions arising from people who had multiple strokes. The multiple strokes now affect one of the structures causing Parkinson’s, so it is called pro-strokes Parkinson’s. That is, after many strokes, not just one. Then there is a condition called multiple system atrophy. Here, the brain cell starts aging or degenerating. Other than that, there are three other conditions. There’s Shy Drager Syndrome, what we call autonomic dysfunction in Parkinson’s disease. It has what is called hypotension. When sufferers stand, their blood level goes down. Then there are others called Parkinson’s plus, and supranuclear palsy, a condition in which the eyes cannot stop facing upwards; the eyes cannot face down. In what other ways does the condition affect the body? One of the other symptoms is that when you look at the faces of the sufferers, you will think they are wearing a mask. They don’t blink, so they have what is called expressionless facie or mask-like face. They keep the same look, irrespective of the emotion around them. Then when they talk, you don’t hear them clearly. They have a reduced volume of speech, what is called hypotonia, simply termed monotonous speech. There’s no rise and fall in tone when they speak and they don’t make any emphasis. They also have a loss of arm swing when moving or reduced arm swinging. Also, when they write, their handwriting is very small. They have what is called micrographia. Does Parkinson’s disease have a cure? The key problem in Parkinson’s disease is the problem in the brain stem. The brain stem is like the neck of the body. So, there’s a component there that is called the mid-brain. Inside it is a structure, which is black and called substantia nigra. The brain cells secrete a lot of chemicals, which are called neurotransmitters or neuromodulators. The one that is deficient in a Parkinson’s patient is what is called dopamine. So, what it simply means is that there is dopamine deficiency. It can be likened to those with diabetes. The same way a diabetic patient lacks insulin is the same way a Parkinson’s patient lacks dopamine. That’s the deficiency. Just the same way the diabetic patient doesn’t stop the intake of insulin for life, the same way the Parkinson’s patient takes dopamine for a lifetime. There is a life-long treatment. It is not curable but it is treatable. The word, curable, cannot be used for Parkinson’s but ‘treatable’ can be used. The patient will be on medication for life. How is it diagnosed? It is usually a clinical diagnosis. The doctor uses his judgment by looking out for those signs attributed to Parkinson’s disease. Some patients can even be spotted from afar that they have Parkinson’s disease. They usually assume flex-bent posturing and loss of arm swing. They shake and they look very rigid. They make very slow movements and they exhibit a festinant gait. From the sound of their shoes sometimes, the doctor will know that the patient has Parkinson’s disease. They also have tremors, that is, shaky hands. They can also have what is called propulsion and retropulsion. When walking, if you push them to the front, they move faster and fall. If you also repeat the same action backwards, they move faster backwards and can fall. The one forward is called propulsion and the one backwards is called retropulsion. Having said that, it is clinical. Sometimes, when an MRI of the brain is carried out, it is observed that that part of the brain is pigmented but that is very rare. A chemical test of the brain substance can also be carried out to know how the cells are working. What are the possible side effects of the treatment? The truth is that there is no angelic medicine. A Yoruba proverb says that there are two sides to a door, it will either open inward or outward. It depends on where you are going, either inward or outward. So, there is no medicine without a side effect. You are only to weigh the options. At the start of medication, it can be administered once daily. Later, it might increase to two, three, or even six, because the ratio of efficacy will reduce and when the effect has worn off, all the symptoms will come back. When a patient wants to go out, they must take another dose and it goes on and on like that else all the symptoms will start again. When some of the patients react to it, they may feel restless unable to sleep. How can the condition be best managed? The best of course is medication but also bear in mind that some may have to undergo some surgical procedures, especially for the tremors. Patients may also have to do some stimulation and what have you. How can the risk factors be reduced? If one knows that it runs in the family, one should try to avoid all other factors that can aggravate it, like exposure to pesticides. If you are a farmer, you need to be careful with exposure to some herbicides, and avoid head injuries as much as possible. There are more than two sides to a coin. For those, who smoke, Parkinson’s is not common with them, I am, however, not saying that it is a positive side to smoking, but the truth is that smokers will have fewer Parkinson’s than non-smokers. That is the irony to that. It is not an encouragement for people to start smoking, it is just an observation. Just like when people say that if you take red wine, it will improve your high-density lipoprotein (good cholesterol); it doesn’t mean that everyone should take red wine. You can achieve the same result with exercise. So, one should not consider smoking because they will be less at risk of having Parkinson’s disease. How can it be prevented totally? One cannot use the word, totally, because one is getting advanced in age and age itself is a risk factor. The truth is that you cannot have your cake and eat it. You can not say that you want to get old and not have some of these things (age-related illnesses). Just like a stroke as well, the older you get, the higher the chances of getting it. There are degenerative changes in the brain and they occur with age. Prevention, of course, rests on avoiding the things that can aggravate it. Things can lead to a stroke. Avoiding exposures to herbicides and insecticides, avoiding head injuries as much as possible, avoiding drinking well water, and avoiding inhaling fumes from generators and the likes and environmental pollution in general can help. Is it correct to say Parkinson’s disease is terminal? Well, I won’t say terminal in the sense that the person is going to die now. The truth is that if they start their medication, they may not die from Parkinson’s; they may die from other things but age will still set in. So, if they keep to their medication, they might eventually die from other courses than Parkinson’s itself. It could be cancer of the prostate, breast or whatever, while Parkinson’s itself is still well controlled. Having said that, it is said to be progressive. Progressive in the sense that patients may end up not walking again. They become immobile. Some will be wheelchair-bound. You see them in wheelchairs and they cannot do anything on their own. It can get to that stage as well and when you know that it is getting to that stage, it goes beyond medication alone. They need therapists to visit them occasionally and, preferably, they should not sit on low stools. They require high stools to sit, because if they sit on low stools, they will not like to get up from it but with a higher stool, it is easier for them to get up. They also find it difficult to make use of round door handles, so, there may be a need to change the door handles in the house. There are also scenarios where they get frozen. So, just modify the environment in the house so that when these frozen episodes come, they won’t experience some difficulties or be locked where they are. Parkinson’s is not a deadly disease I can say, but remember that you are not getting younger and when age sets in, other factors can also manifest. If well managed, one can live as long as possible. What we are simply saying is that one (who has Parkinson’s) does not have enough dopamine. As long as they keep replacing it (dopamine), they will be fine. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com