The Peoples Democratic Party in the Federal Capital Territory and some senior lawyers have faulted the court judgment which extended the tenure of six area council chairmen and councillors in Abuja. The FCT Minister, Mohammad Bello, had on Thursday suspended the inauguration of the newly-elected chairmen and councillors, citing a court judgment. According to a statement he signed on Thursday, the minister said the court ordered that current chairmen and councillors should spend four years in office as stipulated by the Electoral Act, 2022 as against the three years prescribed under the Electoral Act, 2010. The statement read in part, “As you are all aware that in March 2019, we held area council elections in FCT and six council chairmen and councillors were elected after a very competitive and rigorous process. “These six council chairmen of the FCT were then inaugurated on May 20, 2019, under the Electoral Act, 2010. Based on that Act, the tenure of the chairmen should end today (Thursday) and the new chairmen, who won the elections held in February this year, should be sworn in on May 20, 2022. “But a few days ago, we received communication of a judgment by a court in the FCT directing us to suspend the inauguration of the new chairmen based on the fact that the current chairmen’s tenure would end today, May 19, 2022. “According to the judgment which was based on the Electoral Act, 2022, which stipulates that the tenure of office of the chairmen of the area councils in the FCT would now be four years instead of three years, the existing chairmen whose tenure were meant to expire or end today, have one year to continue.” Speaking with our correspondent, the PDP Chairman in FCT, Sunday Zakka, who lamented that the party was not joined in the suit, faulted the judgment which he said would be resisted by the party. Zakka said, “As a party, it seems to us that some other people went to get kangaroo judgment somewhere to favour their interest.  We will not fold our arms and see people take advantage of what they have not laboured for. “The FCT election was conducted in accordance with the Electoral Act, 2010. We are in tribunal now and the tribunal is working with the Electoral Act, 2010. I don’t know where the judge got his own view from and thought that they should enjoy the electoral act amendment for the next one year. What will now happen to the election that has already been conducted? “We were not even a party to the suit. We see the judgment as an internal arrangement between the FCTA and the judge. “All we saw was judgment and you cannot do that when it involves two parties.  The Independent National Electoral Commission and PDP should have been served. We should have been part of the suit.” Ifedayo Adedipe (SAN), said, “The law is not retrospective, it is prospective. If you are elected for three-year tenure and a new law is made which extends the tenure of the position you are occupying, you must leave when your three-year tenure ends. “The new people are the ones to enjoy the four years, not the old ones. The PDP should challenge this in the law court.” Another lawyer, Ebun-Olu Adegboruwa (SAN), also said “The operation of a law is effective from the day it is signed into law by the President. The Electoral Act, 2022 will only be effective from the day it was accented to by the President and cannot be made to be retroactive to offices or matters that have happened before the Electoral Act was signed to law.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com