A total of 19 governorship aspirants have been cleared by the Peoples Democratic Party to contest the governorship of Plateau State during the 2023 elections, sources told The PUNCH on Sunday. However, one of the aspirants for the State House of Assembly seat, failed the screening conducted for all aspirants seeking to contest the position on the party’s platform. The Plateau State Organising Secretary of the PDP, Yakubu Chocho, confirmed the development in an interview in Jos. According to him, all the aspirants for the three Senatorial seats and eight House of Representatives seats in the state also scaled through the screening exercise conducted by the party. He said, “We have about 19 aspirants from Plateau state alone seeking to contest the governorship on the platform of the PDP.  For the State House of Assembly, we have about 132 aspirants who purchased forms and were screened. “The aspirants for the governorship position were screened in Abuja while those for the State House of Assembly were screened at the PDP secretariat in Jos. “From what I know, none of the aspirants was disqualified during their screening except one aspirant seeking for the Kanke state constituency seat but he has the right to appeal.” One of the governorship aspirants and former Secretary to the Plateau state Government, Prof. Shedrack Best, who spoke with The PUNCH in Jos on Sunday described the PDP screening exercise for the governorship aspirants as free and fair. “I have been screened and it was very successful. They were very professional all through the screening exercise and I hope the party will continue that way in the remaining schedule of activities”, Best stated. Another governorship aspirant and former Minister of State for Foreign Affairs, Bagudu Hirse who also confirmed his screening commended the party for the way it handled the exercise. Bagudu who spoke through a member of his campaign organisation, Michael Dachom, expressed the hope that he would clinch the party’s ticket during its primary schedule for May and would go ahead to win the main election  when conducted. He said, “After a successful screening, we are currently reaching out to delegates and other stakeholders ahead of the primaries. We have also inaugurated various committees at various levels who are working to ensure that we secure victory at the end of the day. So, the governorship aspiration of our principal is on course.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com