Moses Simon’s former employers KAA Gent have sent the Nigeria international a congratulatory message after helping Nantes secure their fourth Coupe de France title on Saturday night, PUNCH Sports Extra reports. Simon featured for the Belgian club for three seasons, after joining them in 2015 from AS Trencin before joining Levante in 2018. Within the three years, the Nigerian made 76 appearances and scored 16 goals for De Buffalo’s. After guiding Nantes to their first French Cup trophy in 22 years, Gent acknowledged the Super Eagles players’ feat by sending him a message. Gent stated on Twitter, “Congratulations @Simon27Moses and Kalifa Coulibaly on winning the Coupe de France! See you in the @europaleague next year!” Ludovic Blas was the hero with a second-half penalty as the Canaries ended their 21-year trophy drought by beating Nice 1-0 in the Coupe de France final. Simon almost got his name on the scoresheet and doubled Nantes lead but was denied by a desperate last-ditch block. Nantes last lifted the French Cup in the year 2000 and have had to wait 22 years to lay their hands on the prestigious trophy once again. The Coupe de France is the fifth team honour Simon will triumph in after previous successes in Slovakia and Belgium. The 26-year-old won the league and cup double for AS Trencin before adding the Belgian Jupiler League and the Super Cup at KAA Gent. It’s been a great season for the winger at the club level having won Nantes’ player of the month for April after scoring three goals and adding an assist in four matches. It was the second time he claimed the award this season after he had claimed the award having been voted the club’s best player in September 2021. The former Levante forward has six goals and eight assists for Nantes in the French Ligue 1. Up next for Simon and Nantes is a date with Rennes in Ligue 1 on Wednesday.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com