A mild drama played out in Port Harcourt, the Rivers State’s capital on Friday, as the Peoples Democratic Party governorship aspirant in Rivers State, Farah Dagogo, was carried into the State High Court by three policemen. Dagogo who looked unconscious was brought to the court in a police van and hand lifted by the operatives into the court, even as his hands dangled from side to side on the shoulders of the operatives. His lawyer was absent, as he was reportedly unaware that the federal lawmaker would be taken to court on Friday. The presiding Judge, Justice Chiwendu Nwogu, who earlier adjourned the matter till Monday next week ordered that Dagogo be remanded at the Port Harcourt correctional centre as he was too weak to stand to take his plea. Dagogo is expected to appear in Court next Monday from the correctional facility located on Dockyard road in the old Port Harcourt township. Journalists were barred from entering the courtroom and prevented from taking pictures of some state government officials. Meanwhile, Ibrahim Lawal, Special Adviser, Media and Publicity to Dagogo has expressed dismay that his principal was taken to court despite his deteriorating health. Lawal, in a statement shortly after the court session, said the High Court, where Dagogo was arraigned, had adjourned to May 16, 2022, only to be brought to court today (Friday). The statement which was made available to our correspondent said the federal lawmaker’s lawyers were neither served nor aware of the change of date. The statement reads,” On Friday, May 13, the Rivers State Government under the orders of Governor Nyesom Wike caused his willing ally and tool, the State Police Commissioner, Friday Eboka, for Hon. Doctor Farah Dagogo to be presented in Court despite his very deteriorating health conditions. Chief of Staff to the Governor, Emeka Woke led police officials from Government House to the Court. “In fact, the police forcefully brought Hon Farah Dagogo on a stretcher, and the Chief of Staff, Emeka Woke, was busy harassing and threatening journalists at the Court from taking videos or pictures of how he was brought in on a stretcher. “The journalists were further barred from going into the courtroom. “The High Court, where Hon. Doctor Farah Dagogo was arraigned and had adjourned to May 16, 2022, only for Governor Nyesom Wike and CP Friday Eboka to break all known laws in the Country by bringing the matter forward before Justice Chiwendu Nwogu, today, May 13th. “Hon. Doctor Farah Dagogo’s lawyers were not served either were they aware of the change of date or reason for the change of date and as such were not available to defend him. “This renewed judiciary onslaught by the Rivers State Governor and Police Commissioner, Friday Eboka, was pre-determined to disobey and make a mockery of the Federal High Court Order of May 12, 2022, that granted Hon. Doctor Farah Dagogo’s bail was ignored and disobeyed by Commissioner of Police, Friday Eboka. “All these are orchestrated and well-planned plots to gradually kill Hon. Doctor Farah Dagogo in Police custody. “If anything untoward happens to Hon. Doctor Farah Dagogo, the Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike, the State Commissioner of Police, Friday Eboka, Camp Commandant to the Governor, Efeturi Irikefe, Chief of Staff to the Governor, Emeka Woke, and others should be held responsible. “This information is for the world to be aware of the impunity, disregard for the court of law, executive rascality, and other known norms alien to a sane society under democratic clime, being perpetrated by the Governor of Rivers State, Nyesom Wike, who is a lawyer and Police Commissioner Friday Eboka. “The Judiciary is being raped in Rivers State and the Police has effectively proven to be a political tool of the Rivers State Government. “We await to see the actions and reactions of the Chief Justice of Nigeria, whose temple of Justice is being desecrated, and the Inspector General of Police, who was supposed to ensure that the Police are responsible for the protection of lives and properties,” Lawal alleged. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com