The dream of 14-year-old Sunday Adewale to become a medical doctor is under threat as he is currently battling a tumour. City Round learnt that the growth that had made the teenager almost unrecognisable began like a pimple on the left side of his face in 2019. His father, Michael, told our correspondent on Friday that the tumour made his son become the object of scorn at school, adding that Adewale led a reclusive life at home to avoid being mocked in his neighbourhood. “The thing (tumour) just started growing on the left side of his face, around his eye, nose and mouth. We thought it was a pimple but we later went to a hospital in Benin City, Edo State. After the #EndSARS protest in 2020, we went to the National Hospital in Abuja and ran some tests. The doctors said he would have to undergo an operation. “The tumour disfigured his face. He usually came down with a high temperature and falls sick often. He has not been himself. When he moves around the neighbourhood, people stare at him; he has stopped going out. His peers are afraid of him because the tumour changed his appearance,” the 32-year-old father of three from the Akoko Edo Local Government Area of Edo State said. According to a histology report which Michael said was given to him by the National Hospital, Adewale had “three years of progressive increase of facial swelling,” which is “massive” and “located in the middle.” “Histological section shows a fibro-osseous lesion composed predominantly of fibrous within which are fragment of mature bony tissue. The fibrous tissue is cellular in some areas and accellular and hyalinsed in other areas,” the report signed by a consultant histologist, Dr Paul G, added. Michael, who lamented that he had spent his entire savings on tests and drugs to save his son, said doctors at the National Hospital advised him to opt for surgery for his son, warning that failure to act early could be fatal in the end. He said, “We have spent about N80,000 on his treatment. The doctors said the surgical operation would cost about N500,000. They said if that was not done, the growth would continue and it could lead to my son’s death. “I don’t know where to get the money but I know God can intervene. I used to be an artisan in Benin City but since I returned to Akoko Edo, I have not been able to get a stable job. My wife sells garri in a village but it looks like we are all working for my son’s treatment. “I need help from Nigerians so that my son can undergo the operation and get well. He was about to be enrolled in a secondary school when the illness started, so we had to suspend his education. He keeps telling me he wants to become a medical doctor, and I believe he will survive.” Donations to the patient can be sent to account name; Adewale Grace, Access Bank, with account number; 1579743815. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com