As part of the ongoing efforts to rid Lagos State of distressed buildings, the Lagos State Building Control Agency says it has marked over 10 structures in the state for demolition. A statement by the Head, Public Affairs, LASBCA, Adetayo Asagba, said the buildings were marked for being structurally distressed and unsafe for habitation. The development came on the heels of the demolition of a distressed building located at 47 Jebba Street, Ebute-Metta, Lagos State. The General Manager, LASBCA, Gbolahan Oki, who spoke during the enforcement exercise, commended the efforts of the community leaders, youths, and residents of the areas for cooperating with the enforcement agents of the agency. Other buildings marked for demolition before the end of the week by LASBCA are located at 37 Coates Street; 3, Ondo Street; 14 Ondo Street; 16 Church Street; 13, Ibadan Street; 3 Simpson Street; 35 Jebba Stree; 11 Jeba Street; and 19 Ibadan Street. The LASBCA boss explained that the exercise was a proactive step by the agency to prevent the loss of lives and property due to avoidable building collapses. He said that the move had become imperative to rid the state of inhabitable structures,  promote standards, and attain a livable,  organised, and sustainable built environment. “We urge the people to recognise the urgency in this matter as we cannot afford to wait for another building to collapse; because every distressed building is a disaster in waiting,” he said. “Occupants of distressed buildings will keep asking for more time before they vacate but the truth is that we cannot afford to wait in the matter of life and death,” the LASBCA boss added. Oki said the agency would no longer tolerate excuses by occupants of distressed buildings, who often cited emotional attachments as putative reasons for not being willing to vacate the distressed structures. He called on owners/occupiers of distressed buildings within the state to vacate immediately, particularly during the rainy season which is associated with more cases of building collapse. He urged Lagosians to emulate the cooperation of the youths and residents of Ebute-Metta who liaised with the government by reporting distressed buildings within the area to appropriate government agencies. The General Secretary, Association of Real Estate Developers of Nigeria, Lagos State Chapter, Olumegbon Mutairu, commended the efforts of the state government in ridding the state of distressed buildings. He promised the continued support of members of the association, especially by providing helpful information about the status of buildings across the state.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com