Gunmen in the early hours of Monday killed four persons in different parts of Anambra State. The victims were reportedly shot by the hoodlums for violating a sit-at-home order. The Monday sit-at-home order, which was introduced in the South-East by the proscribed Indigenous People of Biafra, had since been cancelled by the group. The state government had also ordered the full commencement of activities with special prayers held to that effect. Last Monday, normalcy seemed to have returned as appreciable activities were recorded in major cities of the state. But on Monday, two persons were killed in Umuhu village, Ukpor, in the Nnewi South Local Government Area, while two others were shot dead at Ozubulu, Ekwusigo LGA. PUNCH Metro gathered that two brothers, Godwin Modobi and Nnajiofor Modobi, were killed in Ukpor. A source close to the family revealed that Godwin was a former youth leader in the community. The source revealed that the gunmen first killed Nnajiofor, after which they blindfolded and abducted his younger brother, whom they killed close to Utuh Junction and dumped his corpse on the road. A trending video from the scene of the incident showed the victim’s corpse at the centre of the expressway. The state Police Public Relations Officer, DSP Toochukwu Ikenga, confirmed the killing of two men in Ozubulu. He said, “Our men have been deployed in the scene of the incident at Ozubulu. One of the men has been identified as a policeman, while the second is yet to be identified. “Our men also recovered a vehicle at the scene of the incident, but we are not yet sure about the ownership of the vehicle; whether it belongs to the victims or the assailants. The corpses have been deposited in a morgue. “As for the other incident, we have yet to confirm it, but our men have been sent there. The command has also mobilised fully to counter any further attacks.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com