Prospa, a business banking app for entrepreneurs, is helping start-ups, small, and large businesses manage their banking and business, all in one easy-to-use app. CeeC is a Prospa member and Founder of Cegar, an indigenous athleisure brand that reflects quality, style and inspires the spirit of resilience. CeeC shares how she relies on the Prospa app for all her banking and business needs.  Open a business account in 5 minutes. Prospa lets you open a business account in 5 minutes – no minimum opening balance, no bank visits, no complicated process. Download the Prospa app, provide your business information and open a business account in minutes. “It took literally five minutes to open a business account. All I had to do was download the app, fill in my business details, and ever since then, it has been helping me prosper,” said CeeC. Get a Webstore to reach more customers. Take your business online with Prospa Webstore, a simple e-commerce website that helps you sell to customers online. “My Prospa Webstore allows me to have an online presence without spending time and money building a complicated website,” CeeC said. You can upload images of your products, add prices and share your webstore link with customers. Accept Payments Faster Receive payments from your walk-in customers easily with Prospa POS. You get instant payment confirmation into your Prospa business account. “When it comes to face-to-face sales, I use the Prospa POS to get paid quickly and easily. It is super simple – I choose the product, type in the amount, and VOILA! Completely seamless!” CeeC said. Prospa POS creates a better payment experience for your customers, and receiving POS is easy and fast with Prospa. Once requested, the delivery takes only 3 to 7 days. Access all the tools you need to manage your banking and business. Thousands of entrepreneurs depend on the Prospa app for daily banking and business needs. Prospa lets you easily send and receive transfers from all banks, send invoices, create sub-accounts to segment your business finances, automate salaries and register your business. CeeC said, “The interface is super simple, and it just makes sense to have everything I need for my business in one place.” Prospa also integrates with QuickBooks, Waveapps, Zapier, and Sage. Get loans to grow your business. After 30 days of actively using a Prospa business account, members automatically qualify for loans of up to one (1) million naira to finance growth and expansion plans. Prospa loans are disbursed very quickly and come with flexible repayment plans. “When I needed to get more inventory Prospa was there for me,” CeeC said. What are you waiting for? Banking with Prospa gives businesses the power, tools, and resources they need to progress. Signing up to Prospa is quick and easy, and their banking services are not something you will find anywhere else. Become a Prospa member today! And don’t forget to follow Prospa on Socials: ✅ Instagram: @getprospa ✅ Twitter: @getprospa ✅ YouTube: Prospa Bank ✅ LinkedIn: Prospa (YC W21) #CeeC #Entrepreneur #Business