The Minister of State for Budget and National Planning, Prince Clem Agba, says Nigeria’s budgeting and procurement processes have become more transparent since Nigeria joined the Open Government Partnership, OGP. Agba, who spoke at a media parley to mark the 2022 Global OGP Week in Abuja on Friday, said since becoming a member of the OGP, the country had developed two National Action Plans -NAP 1 and NAP 11. The minister noted that NAP 11 would elapse by August this year while NAP 111 was already in the works, noting that during the implementation of NAP 1, the Bureau of Public Procurement developed the NOCOPO portal where all government procurement processes were accessible by the click of a button. “We are working very hard to get the new NAP in place before the expiration of the current one. Let me at this juncture encourage all citizens to make their input and their voices heard  in the development of NAP 111,” he said. The OGP is a global multilateral forum made up of 78 countries and 76 sub-nationals committed to transparency, accountability and reforms. On the other hand, NAP is basically targeted at achieving transparency and accountability in processes in Nigeria while increasing citizens’ participation in the governance process. According to the minister, who is the Public Sector CO-chair of the OGP, Nigerian citizens must participate in the governance process, noting that as more states joined the OGP, the country would see more transparency in the way things were done. “Nigerians need to be drivers of the transparency. A lot of people would not show interest but might want to complain. We need to own this process and participate in making NAP 111 a success,” he further said. Co-chair of the OGP, Dr Tayo Aduloju, noted that though there were areas of improvements on NAP I and NAP II, they had been generally successful. He said the aspirations of the OGP would not begin and end in boardrooms but they required the participation of citizens. “The key lesson for Nigeria is that if you want a different country, you must get involved. You do not have to sit outside and complain,”  he said. President of Transparency International (Nigeria), Auwal Musa Rafsanjani), commended the government for its support, saying  without its collaboration, the whole situation would have been different.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com