Marriage is a relationship that requires emotional intelligence to control the dynamics that come with it and the commitments to overcome the unpleasant surprises too. Many marriages are struggling today because either one or both persons in the relationship lack emotional intelligence or the skills required to mitigate conflicts before they escalate in their marriage. Couples who have been able to master the art of managing their own emotions are more likely to enjoy a lasting, happy, and peaceful marriage, while those who do not understand how to recognise and manage their own emotions will always find it difficult to lessen conflicts in their marriage. Recognise abuse in your marriage The rising rate of domestic abuse in marriages today can substantiate the importance of emotional intelligence. Domestic abuse is one of the most common forms of abuse commonly perpetrated by men towards women. However, men can also experience domestic abuse at the hands of women. Violence against women is more prevalent around the world and one in three women will experience physical, emotional, or financial abuse in her relationship and marriage and that woman could be a wife, mother, daughter, sister, colleague, boss, friend, or prayer partner. Any woman can become a victim of domestic abuse. It is therefore important to educate women about all forms of abuse so that they can recognise abuse in their marriages. Culture can aid abuse The place of culture in marriage is one of the factors hindering domestic abuse cases among married women in Nigeria making women more vulnerable in their marriage and that can justify why many men get away with this evil act. Most domestic abuses are reported when it is too late as many women do not cry out for help due to fear of condemnation by families and stigma by society. However, domestic abuse is gradually receiving the attention it deserves due to the influence of social media which has continued to create an awareness of the issue due to the increasing number of women losing their lives because of domestic abuse. In the United Kingdom, two women die every week in the hands of their partners or former partners according to the office of National Statistics (2019). Do not ignore the red flag Marriage is a covenant that should be honoured and respected by two which begins and ends with loving and caring for each other. But when the act of compassion starts to diminish in your marriage, it can change the sequence making room for irrational behaviours that can lead to physical and emotional abuse. Most domestic abuse does not occur in isolation,sometimes there are red flag warnings which could also be a cry for help. Many women walk on eggshells in their marriages enduring many years of abuse at the hands of their spouses and decide to stay to avoid criticism and the humiliation attached to walking away from a marriage. The COVID-19 pandemic also had negative impacts on many marriages, especially ones that were already struggling. The perpetrator of abuse in marriage irrespective of gender does not act in isolation. No man in his right state of mind would pride himself as an abuser of a woman he promised to love and cherish at the beginning of their marital journey. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com