Last week’s article suggested that Nigeria needs to reboot. She needs a new vision to succeed erstwhile Vision 20:2020 which only existed but was never fully implemented. More importantly, it was proposed that Nigeria needs a new political party different from the contraption called All Progressives Congress-People’s Democratic Party coalition or APDCP, which existed since 1999 to perpetuate primitive capital accumulation, self-centred directionless ideology. Individuals in the parties are bigger than the political party they belong resulting in competition for self-aggrandisement to wield political power and less attention to the task of promoting the wellbeing of the citizens. Moving forward in our rebooting, we need to have a vision of where the country should be in the next 25 to 30 years. We need a strong, focused leader. A president that has a vision of developing Nigeria, not his or her family and a clique of loyalists. A strong-willed leader that governance cannot be hijacked from by a clique of sycophants. We need a party with a clearly recognised ideological stand that can be pinned down to one of the global political ideologies. We need leaders who will share the vision of the president for the common good of the citizenry rather than self-pride. We need a creative team of leaders with patriotic or nationalistic zeal to use the resources of the nation for the benefit of the country and with the aim of making Nigeria one of the 20 most developed economies in the world in 2050. Of course, we need citizens who are enlightened, empowered and patriotic not only to know what is good for them but ready to work diligently as part of the inputs or processes towards achieving the projected national goals. We need a comprehensive national plan that we are ready to implement its content toward a better Nigeria in the year 2050 or thereabout. This is the notion of a Vision 20: 2050. Rebooting is like re-starting a computer or like re-starting the Nigerian project. Every election period should be seen as an opportunity to evaluate and prepare to change those things that are hindering progress while the election itself offers the opportunity to change the leadership that has not performed satisfactorily. The concern I have noticed in discussions since last week’s publication is the possibility of having a new party registered on the eve of election. Truly, the possibility is remote and the newness of the party is not based on a non-existing party but a party from the bunch of the registered, less popular and unpopular parties but with ideological orientation different from the current ‘chop and quench’ parties. The idea that we have more than five parties shows a lack of seriousness on the part of the current crops of politicians. Albeit, from such a general outlook we may find one or a few that could solicit and present well known credible candidate(s) for election. Rebooting Nigeria is not all about the leadership or the vision, it is that everyone has a role to play, since the rot we live with today was generated by the leaders and the followers. It is not about the economy alone but the political economy. It is not about the president and his team but also about the governors and their teams, the legislature, the judiciary, the media, the professionals and the not-so-professionals, as well as the common man whose quest for money will make him sell his conscience for N500 at the polling booth or kill a fellow struggling human being for money ritual. More appropriately though, rebooting is about how the president and his team (or the governor and his team) would live by a good example, would sell, share and promote their vision and mission of greater Nigeria within the world group referred to as G20. Provide leadership that recognises the importance of timely and quality education, affordable health care, production and productivity for citizens of all classes, as well as openness, transparency and accountability as the sure routes toward that greater Nigeria. Where we conform with international standards in all local and international physical or financial dealings and activities rather than doing things ‘the Nigerian way’! The legislature at the local, state and federal levels should see themselves as independent of the executive arms of government and conscience of the people they represent thereby earning the respect of the executives and the public. The judiciary will not just be the hope of the common man but the hope and conscience of all and sundry. Judgement given in one court would not contradict judgement pronounced in another court at the same level and with the same evidence such that on every occasion, the Chief Justice of Nigeria would not have to remind or enjoin judges to purge themselves of corruption. In the proposed new Nigeria, the professionals, including the media personnel, the medical personnel, engineers, builders, surveyors, city/town planners and allied experts, the drivers, welders with other artisans, event planners and all other categories of professionals should see themselves as offering their services with the highest level of professionalism and ready to own up for appropriate sanction or punishment in case of default. The academics in public institutions would not show more dedication when teaching in private institutions than in their places of primary assignment because of better honorarium or payment and a more conducive environment rather they would realise that the Nigerian youths are the same and deserve the same quality education for future development of Nigeria. A rebooted Nigeria means that the civil and public servants must see themselves as part of the professionals who should earn respect from fellow Nigerians through abhorrence of corruption. A situation in which an officer at the helm of affairs in the civil service has to be eased out on corruption charges depicts the sorry state or the depth of the rot in the sub-sector and cast doubt on the competencies of the services offered by the civil service. A situation in which national statistics have to be doctored to make the economy look good or the naira has to be devalued to boost federal allocation or the refineries gulping money without producing refined fuel so that importation of same and payment for over-invoiced subsidies remains the only recommended option or where the workmen of the electricity distribution centres collude with a fraudulent public to tap electricity directly from electric poles cannot be part of the new Nigeria. The year 2023, the expected year of election of a new president with his team, should be the watershed for an end to all the negativities. We have to start working towards a better Nigeria from now. Every apolitical Nigerian elite must show interest in who leads this country from 2023. We need a leader who, as a governor, can point at landmark achievements in his state, or as an individual, he can clearly show his sources of wealth and how much tax he has paid over a period as well as the employment he has generated locally. I remember in the campaign period for the 1979 elections, the issue of tax payment by candidates was part of the process. There was public argument as to how much one of the presidential candidates ought to pay and how much he paid as tax. Does Independent National Electoral Commission check such important facts today? The elites must be involved in enlightenment and judgement. They cannot afford ‘sidon look’ – apology to Bola Ige. The media must be bold in reporting facts based on investigative journalism. Again, there must be ordered economic development. The Economic Commission for Africa has shown that African countries need development plans, through its Agenda 2063, a development plan document for African countries. Nigeria, in assuming its leading role in Africa physically rather than on paper, needs a long-term national development plan that spans 30 to 50 years. A national plan assists in identifying the resources available, the goals to be achieved, the route to achieving the goals given the resources, et cetera. A corruption-free Nigeria is desirable, a new Nigeria with ordered development is possible. Let’s work at it from now! Concluded.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com