While infertility is not a disease, it and its treatment can affect all aspects of people’s lives, which can cause various psychological-emotional disorders or consequences including turmoil, frustration, depression, anxiety, hopelessness, guilt, and feelings of worthlessness in life. Infertility is defined as the inability to procreate, carry or deliver a baby naturally. The majority of specialists describe infertility as being unable to get pregnant after having tried for at least one year. Women who can get pregnant but have recurrent miscarriages are also considered to be infertile. The inability to conceive children is experienced as a stressful situation by individuals and couples all around the world. The consequences of infertility are manifold and can include societal repercussions and personal suffering. Advances in assisted reproductive technologies, such as In Vitro Fertilisation, can offer hope to many couples where treatment is available, although barriers exist in terms of medical coverage and affordability. The medicalization of infertility has unwittingly led to a disregard for the emotional responses that couples experience, which include distress, loss of control, stigmatization, and a disruption in the developmental trajectory of adulthood. Evidence is emerging of an association between stress of fertility treatment and patient drop-out and pregnancy rates. Fortunately, psychological interventions, especially those emphasizing stress management and coping-skills training have been shown to have beneficial effects for infertility patients. Infertility is a complex and significant life event involving social and psychological problems. For both couples, infertility is a situational crisis that is generically financially challenging, emotionally draining, physically painful, and psychologically threatening most of the time. Globally, there are more than 80 million people with infertility. Although, these rates vary among different countries. According to the World Health Organisation, everyone has a right to attain a standard physical and mental health. Infertility takes a heavy toll on a couple’s mental health, affecting their way of life. Although, both men and women can react to this differently as women are often perceived to suffer from infertility whether they are infertile. Infertility has negative social impacts on the lives of an infertile couple, especially women who frequently go through social stigma, depression, anxiety, violence, divorce, and low self-esteem. Furthermore, some studies have shown that couples with infertility experience significant anxiety and emotional stress, especially when a round of infertility treatment proves to be unsuccessful. As regards this, it is pertinent for any healthcare personnel to evaluate the psychological state of an infertile couple as this could help their quality of life and infertility treatment. Psychological impact on a couple with infertility It’s pertinent for us to know that infertility is not a disease. Its influence can affect people’s lives in various ways: psychological-emotional disorders or consequences such as anxiety, guilt, depression, frustration, and feelings of hopelessness and worthlessness. Depression, suicidal thoughts, stress, and anxiety are common sequela of infertility in the female gender. Some studies showed that the incidence of depression in the female gender is significantly high. It can be due to peer and family pressure, followed by anxiety which is immensely high among couples with infertility. For instance, looking at each passing monthly cycle they undergo could also bring about a roller coaster of emotions such as guilt, sadness, anger, and even hope. It could be worse each time a friend announces their pregnancy. The thought of not procreating after so many attempts coupled with pressure from the family and friends contributes significantly to their mental health, which also needs to be appropriately evaluated before commencing any Assisted Reproductive Technology treatment. Inability to conceive can also affect a person’s sexual self-esteem, performance, and desire. When this becomes associated with frustration and failure, they lose emotional connection. Undergoing fertility treatments could also make sexual intercourse less spontaneous, as it becomes focused only on procreation rather than recreation. The act of seeking religious and spiritual assistance is also a path patients explore as they grapple with the feelings of neglect from God, and some might lose their faith. The financial aspect is also one of the significant contributing factors we need to consider. It is another area of immense anxiety when couples struggle to pay for their medical treatment. Also, with frequent medical treatment, couples may encounter difficulties maintaining their income source. How Professionals can help The best approach is to adopt the framework of a psychotherapy approach before commencing any form of A.R.T treatment. It requires a mental health professional or a fertility doctor with knowledge of mental health issues. These professionals must communicate effectively with couples and develop an understanding of the types of infertility counseling and implement them effectively. Fertility doctors and mental health professionals are instrumental in guiding teams through grief and loss, helping them to confront numerous possible medical decisions. Communication and interpersonal skills are the mainstay approach to helping a couple through the sequence of stress that infertility inflicts on the marital and non-marital relationship. In Medical Art Center, we use this framework to help the patient identify the negative cycles of conflict and distance. It teaches them the positive processes of communication and connection. Managing the psychological aspect of any patient is a multidisciplinary approach that has been our first line of treatment over the years in managing all our client. This method of management focus more on the mental state of any patient undergoing A.R.T treatment, instill hope and a peace of mind to their family as they finally achieve a successful pregnancy. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com