The lawmaker representing the Funtua/Dandume Federal Constituency in Katsina State at the House of Representatives, Muntari Dandutse, has said the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), has performed wonderfully well in office. He stated that it is one of the reasons why the All Progressives Congress remains strong in Katsina despite the recent defection by one of the three senators from the state. Dandutse also took a swipe at the lawmaker representing Katsina North Senatorial District, where Buhari hails from, Senator Ahmed Kaita, who in April announced his defection from the ruling APC to the opposition Peoples Democratic Party. Dandutse alleged that Kaita and others who are exiting the APC are doing so for selfish reasons, adding that they are “politicians who don’t think of ethics and principles.” The lawmaker said this in Abuja after submitting his Declaration of Interest and Nominations Forms of the APC to contest the Katsina South Senatorial District seat at the Senate in the 2023 general election. He said, “Those that joined the PDP, they do it with selfish interests because most of the criminalities and the situations that we have in this country were caused by the PDP. We have known the PDP. The PDP ruled this country for 16 years and for us as the masses, who are grassroots politicians, we know the extent of damage that was done by the PDP. “And for us in Katsina State, that one who has joined the PDP, he has done it for his own selfish interest. And Mr. President, the Commander-in-Chief (of the Armed Forces), Muhammadu Buhari, has done wonderfully because there were a lot of problems that he met. “For us to address most of the issues that are happening in Nigeria, they are politically motivated. What is important is that we need to put our heads together and ensure peace and security of this country. “And I believe that the APC has done wonderfully (well). If you look at the critical infrastructure which has been done by the APC, they were not done in the PDP time. So, for the masses to think that most of these problems were caused by the APC, it is just stereotype perception which is in most cases negative.” The lawmaker said for Nigerians to develop their country, they needed to shun their tribal or religious differences. “We need to remain focused and absolutely have the fear of God so that we can move this country forward,” he stated. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com