A former Secretary to the Sokoto State Government, Bashir Garba, has officially assumed duties as the new Vice Chancellor of the Sokoto State University. The new VC in a brief ceremony held at the Senate building of the university on Thursday, officially took over from Professor Sani Dangoggo. At the ceremony, Garba promised to make completion of staff quarters within the school a priority. He said with the staff quarters on ground, staff of the school will have easy access to attend to their students without delay. He promised to make sure that under his leadership, there will be a provision of a guest house and the school will also in no distant time,have a staff school which he said will help in reducing stress embarked upon by staff in taking their kids to school. Garba, who was also the immediate past Commissioner for Higher Education and one time Rector of Umaru Ali Shinkafi Polytechnic, further assured the staffs and students of the university the school under his leadership will tap into the available opportunity of proposed Law school in Argungu, Kebbi State, to establish faculty of law in the school. He called on ASUU and other professional unions in the school to do whatever they can to find a way out for the ongoing dispute between ASUU and the government in the interest of the students. He commended the outgoing Vice Chancellor for not only sustaining all the 23 academic programmes he met but also improving it to 39, in addition to another 19 Postgraduate programmes. The Professor of Chemistry promised to return to class in addition to his duty as the Vice Chancellor so as not only to maintain the accreditation of the school but also improve on them all. Earlier in his remarks, Dangoggo, assured his successor to make himself available for advice and clarifications whenever his attention is required. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com