SoftAlliance has introduced a solution called the PlateDetect to help vehicle owners confirm the status or validity of their vehicle documentation. During a virtual launch, the firm said the solution would help to confirm validity such as roadworthiness, insurance and vehicle licence. It said, “PlateDetect is a solution that has come from the yearning and frustration of Lagosians. It is expected to help vehicle owners prevent fines by having information about the status of their vehicle before their documentation expires. “SoftAlliance draws on its relationship and previous engagements with the public sectors to proffer this solution via third party integration to confirm the status of the vehicle documentation. “PlateDetect is therefore that solution which ensures vehicle owners are able to leverage the existing synergy with the State Government to renew their documents conveniently and in a timely fashion before a traffic offence or violation occurs.” While noting that over 30,000 vehicle owners were on the watchlist, it said it tried to encourage the vehicle inspection service to provide relief and notification to the offenders to avoid enforcement. “We have also encouraged the state to provide discount windows to offenders,” it said. SoftAlliance said it provides services driven by a need to make the process of licence, insurance and road worthiness renewal less stressful for vehicle owners. The firm said it was looking at expanding across the geopolitical regions in the country. It stated, “We know the political and security challenges in the country. PlateDetect will help vehicle owners across the country, detect the status of their vehicle and location where such vehicles have been sighted.” The firm said the inspiration came from a conversation during a project at the Nigerian Port Authority, when it realised that over 70 per cent of registered vehicles in the country were done in Lagos. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com