A former member of the House of Representatives from Gombe State, Khamisu Mailantarki, on Saturday dumped the ruling All Progressives Congress. Our correspondent reports that Mailantarki contested and won the Gombe/Kwami/Funakaye Federal Constituency election under the defunct Congress for Progressive Change in 2011, where he pulled 122,987 votes – the highest in the House of Representatives election history. However, he contested in 2015 but was removed by the Supreme Court, which declared Yaya Tongo as the authentic winner of the APC primary election of the Gombe/Kwami/Funakaye Federal Constituency. The former federal lawmaker was a Board Member of the Independent Corrupt Practices Commission. His resignation letter, which was obtained by our correspondent, addressed to the APC Chairman, Herwagana Ward of Gombe Local Government Area, partly read, “With gratitude to the Almighty Allah, I hereby wish to notify you of my decision to resign my membership of the All Progressives Congress. “I thank you and the entire members of the party for your support while my membership lasted.” Commenting further about his decision, Mailantarki revealed that it was hinged on the interest of the state and his political future, adding that he would not have left the party he contributed immensely to building. “As the only member elected under the CPC, I funded the entire process of the merger in Gombe State and I was the returning officer during the election of the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari(retd.), in the state in 2019. “Even after the gubernatorial primary in the state, we supported President Buhari and Governor Inuwa Yahaya and made sure the APC won to an extent that we converted Gombe from PDP to APC state,” he said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com