EMERGING events strongly suggest that the Nigerian economy may be headed for catastrophic collapse. The signs are too obvious to be ignored: N4 trillion to fund an opaque petrol subsidy regime, N7 trillion deficit budget financing, massive job losses with the unemployment rate standing at 33.3 per cent, shrinking purchasing power of households and rising food prices exacerbated by dwindling farming activities as a result of escalating insecurity. Efforts have to be made urgently to salvage the economy. Despite the perilous state of the economy, the National Assembly has just approved N4 trillion for subsidy after passing amendments to the 2022 Appropriation Act, which added N442.72 billion to the initial N3.55 trillion voted for subsidy. This was after the two chambers adopted reports on the amendment bills based on the request by the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.). It is ironic that Buhari, who prior to his inauguration in 2015 and shortly after, had described the petrol subsidy as a fraud and vowed not to pay it, is today presiding over record-level subsidy spending. The current economic indices cannot support such profligate expenditure. Revenue shortfalls, massive borrowing and debt servicing obligations are bankrupting the country. This year’s budget deficit of N7.35 trillion represents 3.99 per cent of the GDP. Also, Buhari has requested fresh parliamentary approval to borrow additional N965.42 billion from the domestic market to partly fund the deficit. The International Monetary Fund had in February projected that debt servicing would drain as much as 92.6 per cent of federal revenues this year. Dangerously, debt servicing-to-revenue ratio reached 85.5 per cent in 2021. This implies that over 92 kobo of every N1 the government earns is drained by interest payment on loans, leaving less than eight kobo for other needs. The Central Bank of Nigeria’s payment data record reveals that $13.1 billion was remitted in 11 years – 2011 to 2021 – to settle foreign debt obligations to the World Bank, IMF and Exim Bank of China, among others. These repayments were made on behalf of the federal and state governments. To plug the revenue shortfall, the CBN has resorted to record-level ‘Ways and Means’ – printing of money. Though the CBN governor, Godwin Emefiele, justified this as necessary to finance the budget, economists warn that such “helicopter money” must be carefully managed to avoid economy-ruining inflation. The regime’s and CBN’s records do not inspire confidence at home and abroad. Global rating agencies, Fitch and the World Bank, have separately warned that the repeated financing of the budget deficit by the CBN through printing currency poses a great risk to macroeconomic stability. Though cautiously encouraged in a global economy ravaged by the COVID-19 pandemic, experts warn that this is not a sustainable measure in the long run. The IMF and World Bank emphasise that central bank financing undermines investor and creditor confidence and hampers long-term investment. The fragile state of the economy is exacerbated by the extremely poor power supply situation that features frequent grid collapse. There is also scarcity of petrol in many states, and escalating prices of diesel and lubricants. Genuine producers cannot get foreign exchange from official sources and have to rely on the black market, where the exchange rate has jumped to N590 to $1. Amid this, instead of effective measures to stimulate production and job creation, the regime opts for ill-conceived tokenism such as the plan to distribute N20 billion to two million people from June as ‘basic cash transfers’ and ‘conditional cash transfers’ under the National Cash Transfer Programme. This is shallow, dubious and exclusionary. It will not reach most of the estimated 90 million adjudged to be ‘extremely poor’, and also ignores the over 200 million other Nigerians. Moreover, Nigeria lacks the database and the institutional capacity to correctly identify and effectively disburse cash to its poorest. effectively. In the prevailing environment of unaccountability, corruption, sectionalism and impunity, most of the funds will never be accounted for. The government must look at other sources of raising money. One is to plug the massive revenue leakage arising from crude oil theft. The country ought to be enjoying bumper earnings from higher oil prices provoked by the Russia-Ukraine war, but the industrial scale theft of crude is denying it of this windfall. The N4 trillion subsidy outlay is particularly irksome: it arises solely because the country, a major crude oil producer, irrationally relies wholly on imports to meet domestic demand for refined products. The sensible solution that Buhari, like his predecessors, has refused to take is to sell off the four moribund state-owned refineries, implement an emergency programme to promote the establishment of several private ones to achieve self-sufficiency in record time, and then stop the subsidy. That remains the best option. The government will not only realise money from the asset sale, but will also save itself from the trillions of naira in cumulative operating losses. More importantly, it will help the country achieve self-sufficiency in refining, save money from stopping imports and target subsidies if still required, to the domestic producers and the economy, creating jobs, and generating local value added and taxes. In a 2018 research report, McKinsey, a global consultancy, found that adoption of liberal competitive policies, industrialisation through MSMEs, export diversification, investment and macroeconomic stability were the factors that facilitated the successes of emerging economies like China, Hong Kong, Singapore, South Korea, Taiwan, Thailand and Indonesia. The Nigerian government should target these measures. It must also arrest the escalating insecurity in the country, widen the tax net, and sell off or concession money-guzzling but moribund assets, including the Ajaokuta Steel Company, railway rolling stocks, seaport and airport operations. As a matter of urgency, the three tiers should drastically slash the bureaucracy and the cost of governance, including the humongous cost of sustaining the legislatures and paying the hordes of political appointees. Crucially, the 36 states must promote productive activities, attract investment and stimulate job creation. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com