Sometime ago, a South African “pastor” circulated a video in which she offered to solve everybody’s problem for a nominal cost. All it entails is for those seeking solutions to their problems to purchase some ice blocks from her and watch them melt. Purchasers’ problems would melt away with the ice blocks. There is just one catch: payment must be in dollars, euros or the rand. No naira or cedi. It was all a spoof, of course, a spoof of the increasingly audacious ways that some preachers are scamming people all over Africa. What isn’t a spoof is a video currently circulating on social media in which one Pastor Ade Abrahaman calls on believers to purchase tickets to heaven for N310,000. The Christian Association of Nigeria has issued a stinging rebuke of Abrahaman and is threatening to track him down and turn him over to the police. First though, CAN has to give him some credit. At least, he accepts the naira, unlike the “disdainful” South African “pastor.” Moreover, Abrahaman is asking for a generous fare, apparently in keeping with his Christian convictions. Even a super-discounted fare to New York would cost more than N310,000. So, the cost to heaven must be a lot more. My guess is that Abrahaman will incur considerable loss. Seriously, scamming in the name of God is nothing new. Dating back to at least the 15th century, the Church sold “indulgences” as the price of penance. It started with people paying priests some amount as a token of their repentance. Then the sale of indulgences skyrocketed following the invention of the printing press by Johannes Gutenberg. People bought them for sins they committed or yet to commit. It was in essence a fundraiser. At the time, the Church — all Catholic — was a most powerful institution all over Europe and beyond. So, its practices were rarely questioned. That was until a priest and theology professor at the University of Wittenberg in Germany felt he had had enough. So, he issued a stinging dissent. The priest was Martin Luther, and his dissent was the 95 Theses. Expectedly the papacy tried to silence him, but he stood firm. That was unlike Galileo about 150 years later. Galileo contradicted Church doctrine by demonstrating that the Earth was not at the centre of the universe. But under trial at the Inquisition, he recanted and apologised. For that “remorse,” he was sentenced to lifetime home imprisonment rather than death. Luther on the other hand was defiant, even after facing the Inquisition twice. It was part courage and part political calculation. Germany was already attempting to shed Papal authority. So, Luther’s protest had a measure of protection, which Galileo didn’t have in Italy. In any case, it is a long story from Luther’s 95 Theses to the Reformation, Protestantism, and the proliferation of denominations. Two major tenets of the Reformation were that forgiveness and salvation were not to be bought and that individuals have the capacity to commune with God and reach their own understanding. Little did Luther know that his revolution would ultimately lead to an unwieldy proliferation of theologies. Or that many Protestant preachers would revert to the equivalent of selling salvation and indulgence. And therein lies the dilemma facing the Christian Association of Nigeria. On the one hand, a tenet of Protestantism is the freedom to interpret the scriptures. On the other hand, egregiously untenable claims undermine the very faith that churches seek to cultivate. Even unbelievers have respect for theological claims that are logical within established tenets. They — no less than the faithful — are dismayed by outlandish claims that merely exploit the most desperate in society. Yet, where to draw the line is something that CAN has to wrestle with. The dilemma is much like that facing democracies with regard to social media. On the one hand the principle of freedom of expression mandates that people be allowed to express themselves. On the other hand, hoaxes, falsehoods and incitation undermine the very purpose of freedom of expression, which is to bring about an enlightened citizenry. The Buhari administration has entertained enacting an absurdly extreme policy of executing people for circulating falsehoods. As I suggested in a fictitious piece here at the time, that would be the fastest way to deplete Nigeria’s population. The European Union recently took the much less draconian approach of requiring social media platforms to quickly take down or block such posts. There is no easy way out of the dilemma. It will remain a subject for reflection and debate for a long time. The same goes for CAN’s effort to police egregiously exploitative claims. The last thing religious organisations want is government regulation. Yet, that’s what CAN is implicitly asking for and that’s what is increasingly happening in sub-Saharan Africa. In Uganda, Kenya, Ghana, Zambia, South Africa and elsewhere, governments are looking for ways to protect the desperate and gullible from self-enriching “prophets” without encroaching on legitimate practice of religion. Some have passed restrictive laws, some have deported offending foreign prophets, some have denied travel visas, and some have arrested the most brazen offenders. Uganda has been especially aggressive in this regard following a number of disquieting events. Among them, a woman testified in 2007 that she was bribed and blackmailed into testifying before a congregation that she was cured of HIV through prayers. In 2018, the country passed a law requiring pastors and prophets to be trained in the theology of one of the mainstream religious groups. “These so-called ‘born again’ ones crop up from anywhere—anyone can become a pastor anytime, anywhere, anyhow,” Simon Lokodo, Uganda’s Minister of State for Ethics and Integrity, told DW, the German news company. “There must be a mainstream church line with doctrine and hierarchy, and there must be a dogma. Without that someone is just making noise.” Even pastors who meet the certification requirements are still not spared if they engage in behaviour that endangers the public. In December 2018, for example, a pastor was arrested for persuading a mother to turn exclusively to prayers and to stop giving medication to a critically ill child. Ghana applies existing laws that regulate the dissemination of false and dangerous information. Last December the police issued a statement reminding houses of worship that their freedom is “subject to the respect for the rights and freedoms of others according to our laws.” CAN seems to be in accord with the Ghanaian approach. Even then, it must be concerned with the possibility of a slippery slope. What if government begins to question the theology of “sowing seeds” to bring about prosperity? Or sale of olive oil as anointed oil? Or even anointed water? The distinction could be made that so long as there are the faithful who believe that these things helped them, then there’s no harm done. That contrasts with the sale of tickets to heaven. It’s improbable that any ticket purchaser would claim that he was actually provided the service. But then you never know. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com