About four gunmen were killed on Wednesday by soldiers attached to the 144 Battalion of the 14 Brigade of the Nigerian Army, Aba, Abia State. It was gathered that incident happened at about 2 pm yesterday at the Uratta, Aba area of the Enugu-Port Harcourt Expressway as the gunmen, wearing black attires, suddenly marched through popular streets and markets forcing traders and residents to comply with a two-day sit-at-home order slated for Thursday and Friday. They were said to have warned residents about the consequences of disobeying the order of the sit-at-home expected to be observed across the south-eastern states in protest against the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.)’s planned visit to Ebonyi State on Friday. A source said it happened while the gunmen were going about spreading their information which was said to have made some shop owners close their businesses. While getting to the Uratta junction, they had a challenge with the soldiers which resulted in a gun duel, killing four of the gunmen, including their leader, while others escaped with gun shot wounds. A military source at the 14 Brigade who spoke on condition of anonymity, confirmed the face-off which led to the death of four of the gunmen, while others sustained injuries. The source equally confirmed the recovery of charms and life tortoise from the suspected leader of the group. However, a resident of the area said that over two weeks, a group of organised hoodlums had been extorting money and items, robbing people and raping women within the area before the gunmen in black organised themselves and forced them off the streets. The source said the hoodlums, in order to revenge, reported to the police and army who came yesterday along with the complainants that pointed at some people as part of the gunmen. During the raid, it was alleged that a gun duel ensued, leading to the killing of the gunmen. All efforts to get a response from the Police Public Relations Officer, Geoffrey Ogbonna, was not possible as calls made to him did not go through. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com