Some suspected hoodlums on Monday attacked about four vehicles on their way out of the campaign venue of Osun State governor, Adegboyega Oyetola, in Gbongan. Governor Oyetola addressed his supporters at Arapajo area, Gbongan, when the vehicles came under attack, including the one conveying some journalists driving out of the area. The perpetrators, holding clubs, charms, stones, and axes, smashed the vehicles’ side screen, leaving four journalists injured. Governor Oyetola had kicked off his campaign at Orileowu where he addressed party supporters before moving to Gbongan. Addressing his supporters in Gbongan, Oyetola said his performance in the last three-and-a-half years is proof of his depth in progressive ideology. Oyetola, who reiterated that he is in government to serve, called on citizens to support his drive and aspiration to fix Osun collectively. He said, “You handed me the mandate as your governor four years ago, and through the help of God, I did not disappoint you. I trust that you are not going to deviate this time around. “Our works have shown that we are not neophytes in politics. In 1983, I had the privilege of sitting and interacting with Baba Awolowo, which attests to the fact that I understand the concept of progressive governance. We are not in government to struggle for relevance; we came to serve and fix Osun. “We have taken note of other concerns, and we will attend to all in due time. But we must also remind you that this is an effort that requires collaboration. That is why we are appealing for your support before, during, and after the election to enable us to fix the state. “Osun is at a very delicate phase in history; let us entrust its leadership to hands that have been tested, not gamblers or jesters or those who think Osun is for sale.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com