English Premier League side, Everton, have identified Nigerian Bright Osayi-Samuel as a primary target when the summer transfer window opens, PUNCH Sports Extra reports. The Toffees are in the market for a replacement for aging Séamus Coleman, who will turn 34 when the new season begins. It has been a disappointing 2021/22 season for Everton as they currently sit 16th on the EPL table and are battling for safety. However, manager Frank Lampard is already planning on rebuilding the squad ahead of next season, and one of the players that have caught the eye of the former Chelsea midfielder is the former Queens Parks Ranger man. According to Turkish website, m.ensonhaber.com, Everton will submit a bid believed to be around €6m, should they survive relegation. “Osayi-Samuel, who is highly admired as a right-back in Fenerbahçe, was added to Everton’s transfer list at Lampard’s request. If the Premier League team stays in the league, they will submit the official offer,” the website wrote. “While the blue-whites, who are struggling to stay in the Premier League, are two points above the relegation line, if things go well, Osayi-Samuel will replace the aging Coleman. “While it is learned that Fenerbahçe wants to make a good profit for Osayi, one of the names that Lampard personally admires, the market value of the successful player is currently known as €6m. Everton will knock on Fenerbahce’s door after the league is over.” Osayi-Samuel played a total of 42 games this season, scored two goals and registered five assists. Also, West Ham, Southampton and Brentford are said to be plotting moves for the Fenerbahce ace. The 24-year-old has been impressive for the Turkish this season after being converted from a winger to an attack-minded right-back. The Premier League trio have all registered their interest in a potential summer deal. Osayi-Samuel played a total of 42 games this season, scored two goals and registered five assists.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com