The primary election for the All Progressives Congress House of Representatives for Ekiti Central Federal Constituency 2 was inconclusive on Friday following violent disruption of the exercise. A House of Representatives member, Omowumi Ogunlola, who is seeking a re-election ticket, accused the agents of her co-contestant and the former Chief of Staff to Governor Kayode Fayemi, Mr Biodun Omoleye, of masterminding the violence. The lawmaker told journalists in Aramoko-Ekiti, Ekiti West Local Government Area, venue of the primary, “It was in the course of the delegates casting their votes that the personal assistant to the former CoS came to intercept what they were doing and took possession of some of the ballot boxes and tore the papers. “The exercise was inconclusive. So, it is normal that we have to go all over again. My appeal to the party is that they should conduct a primary for the constituency, because we have limited time. The shadow poll should be conducted in no distant time, even tomorrow (Saturday), which is the date for the Senate. They want to take advantage of my gender.” Effort to reach Omoleye on the telephone proved abortive. Meanwhile, two serving House of Representatives lawmakers, Femi Bamisile and Sola Fatoba, won the APC tickets in their constituencies to serve a second term. Bamisile, who is the Chairman, House Committee on Federal Roads Maintenance Agency, polled 160 votes to defeat a serving state House of Assembly member representing Emure constituency, Bummi Adelugba. Fatoba, who represents Ekiti Central Federal Constituency 1, polled 114 votes to defeat Oluyemi Esan, Opeyemi Ogunsakin and Sunday Ola, who polled two, three and zero votes, respectively. However, a serving House of Representatives member, Ibrahim Olanrewaju (Ekiti North Federal Constituency 2), lost his bid to secure a return ticket as he was trounced by an oil dealer, Mr Akinlayo Kolawole. Also, the Senior Special Assistant on Strategic Communications to Fayemi, Mr Akin Rotimi, won the ticket for Ekiti North Federal Constituency 1. Reacting to their victory, Bamisile thanked the delegates, APC leaders and supporters for giving him another opportunity to serve them, while Fatoba pleaded with his constituents and APC members in the state to join hands “so that we can all work for the victory of the APC in the June 18 governorship election.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com