Ten suspected kidnappers cum armed robbers have been neutralized by operatives of the Delta State Police Command in a sting operation carried out at their notorious hideouts around Kwale area of the state on Saturday night. PUNCH Metro gathered that the sting operation was affected by combined teams of the state anti-kidnapping/Cybercrime Squad, Dragon patrol teams, RRS Operatives, and anti-cult volunteers from Agbor, Ekwoma, Igbodo, Ibusa, Abavo, Kwale respectively. Security sources said that the operation was a result of the strategies put in place by the Commissioner of Police for Delta State Command, CP Ari Muhammed Ali, following killings, arsons, kidnapping, armed robbery, attacks on innocent civilians and policemen while on duty and their rifles were taken away. It was gathered that the operatives, following the CP’s directive in the fight against crime and criminality in the state as a result of an intelligence-led investigation, stormed the criminal hideouts around Kwale axis in their sting operation. Security sources further said that the hoodlums who were armed with AK47 rifles and charms on sighting the police shot sporadically at the operatives and the team equally engaged them in a fierce gun battle. However, due to the superior firepower of the police, ten of the suspected kidnappers cum armed robbers were successfully neutralized while others escaped with gunshot injuries. Five AK 47 rifles, six magazines, and 117 rounds of 7.62mm ammunition were recovered from the criminals. The Commissioner of Police, while assuring residents that the Command will continue to sustain this tempo, also urged members of the public, vigilantes, Anti-Cult volunteers, and other non State actors to continue to partner with the police with a view to ensuring that Delta State will never be a safe haven for criminals. The CP stated that the command will not relent in its effort toward arresting and ensuring that the fleeing hoodlums are brought to book. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com