No fewer than 250 students from Gombe have commenced the school exchange programme involving the 19 northern states of Nigeria, with about 23 buses. Our correspondent reports that the first batch would transfer participants to eight states including; Taraba, Kaduna, Kebbi, Plateau, Benue, Nasarawa, and two others. Speaking at the Government Day Science Secondary School II Gombe on Monday, Commissioner for Education Dauda Batari urged the beneficiaries to be good ambassadors of the state. He said they have a responsibility to exhibit good conduct, noting that the government has made necessary arrangements to ensure their safe trip. Represented by Audu Garba, Coordinator students exchange programme, Batari advised parents to keep to time, adding that subsequently latest by 7:30 am vehicles would depart. According to him, about 18 states are participating this year with the exception of Kogi, adding that Governor Muhammadu Yahaya has made it compulsory to ensure that the welfare of students of priority. He said, “Resumption across other states varies, so eight states are leaving today, on the 12th two other states will leave, 16th five states will leave and 23rd two states will leave. “The exchange programme involves students from JSS 1 – SS3 but normally at this time the SS3 are not supposed to be at our midst but because of WAEC examination which could not hold, so must of the schools could not conduct extension.” Commenting on the importance of the exchange programme, the Commissioner added, “students will learn to live in unity. To unite us, out of the 36 states 19 are participating; it will imbibe in the students the need to stay in unity and expose them to other cultures in other parts of Nigeria, as well as food in the various localities too Also speaking, Gombe Line sole administrator Usman Kamara assured of the government’s determination to ensure the students arrived safely. Kamara, who was represented by Jauro Bello, Chief Driver, urged drivers to drive with necessary safety precautions, reminding them that those on board represents the future of the state. “Drivers have been carefully selected and whenever it is late look for a secured place because you are carrying the future of Gombe State,” Kamara said. On his part, Ayuba Mele, who spoke on behalf of other parents commended the government for the initiative, adding that the ministry should look into the issue of ensuring that buses were accompanied by staff. Mele said, “We want to commend the governor; Muhammadu Inuwa Yahaya for the efforts in ensuring that our children are properly taken care of. We want to thank him for the measures he has been taking. “We solicit for a delegation in each of the bus to hand over the students to the ministry there and we solicit for a little change to transport them when they come back to enable them get to their various local governments.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com