Economic and commercial activities were affected on Monday in Owerri, the Imo State capital as residents stayed indoors in compliance with the sit-at-home ordered by the proscribed Indigenous People of Biafra. The IPOB has since announced the cancellation of the Monday order but residents in the South-East still observe it for fear of attack. One of our correspondents, who monitored development in town, observed that public and private offices, markets, schools including banks were shut. Activities at the ever-busy Wetheral Road, Imo State University junction, Government House Roundabout, Ikenegbu and Douglas Roads were brought to a halt. Only a few roadside food and newspapers’ vendors were seen selling to people. The PUNCH noticed that security operatives mounted roadblocks at Orji Flyover on Owerri- Okigwe and Aba- Owerri Roads. The popular Alaba International Market located on Owerri- Aba Road was shut but artisans attended to motorists on the road leading into the market. Also, the situation forced the rescheduling of the ongoing UTME as the designated centres across Anambra State were also shut. The 2022 Computer Based Test which began on Friday, May 6, ought to end on Monday, May 9 but was shifted by the Joint Admissions and Matriculations Board to Tuesday, May, 10. Candidates, who arrived at some of the centres as early as 7am, could not gain entry and no official of the examination body was around to attend to them. The PUNCH noticed that in Onitsha, Nnewi and Ekwulobia, Oba and some parts of Awka, the UTME centres, banks, markets, filling stations, motor parks, shopping malls and other business premises were also under lock and key. In Awka, the examination centres including the JAMB office located at Amawbia bypass via Enugu-Onitsha Expressway, Awka, was also shut. The administrator of one of the designated centres at Integral Development Consult, Awka, Mrs Ngozi Nwude-Nduka, said the centre shut down as a precautionary measure. She advised the affected candidates to reprint their examination slips to know their new dates for the examination. She said, “We want to play safe for the safety of the candidates as possibilities of non-vehicular movement may be experienced and hinder smooth transportation process for candidates who will come from far and near for the examination.’’ A female candidate, identified only as Kate, expressed sadness that the situation was threatening the future of children in the South-East. Meanwhile, gunmen wielding weapons such as AK-47 and cutlasses torched a shuttle bus. The incident happened at the Okpoko area of Ogbaru Local Government Area of Anambra State on Monday. Though no life was lost, The PUNCH gathered that the gunmen attacked the bus and ordered the driver and occupants out before setting it ablaze. The gunmen were said to have blocked a major street linking the community with used tyres and iron bars before leaving the vicinity. Besides, the News Agency of Nigeria reported that candidates for the UTME in Enugu State were also stranded. An official of JAMB who spoke to the NAN on condition of anonymity on Monday in Enugu said the board shifted the exam to May 10 due to the Monday sit-at-home in the South-East. Some of the candidates who also spoke to NAN said they were not aware of the cancellation, saying they came to the centre only to be told that it had been shifted. They said that many of them who went to reprint their slips discovered that the date and time for the exam had been changed to Tuesday, May 10 by 7am. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com