Let me quickly state that this is not an ‘expo’, that is, a question unethically made available before the exam itself. So, no candidate should say one Mr Lasisi has ‘seen’ the questions. Yet, it should be emphasised that the riddle or riddles involved in the topic of this lesson are among those that examiners like to confront candidates with. In any case, everyone – whether students or the general public – ought to master the concepts involved in police have/has and bursting or busting a crime. Police has? ‘Police’ is one collective noun that normally requires plural verbs. It is true that many of the collective nouns take the plural and singular verbs, depending on contexts. For ‘police’, however, plural is normally the acceptable form once it is used as a noun: The police is on top of the game. (Wrong) Police says it is on top of the game. (Wrong) The police are on top of the game. (Correct) Police say they are on top of the game. (Correct) Police has arrested the suspect. (Wrong) Police have arrested the suspect. (Correct) In other words, ‘have’ is the correct word for the first part of the statement under consideration.  There are exceptions – or near exceptions – to the rule, though. Policeman, police woman, police officer etc. take singular verbs while their plural forms go with plurals: A policewoman is here to see you. (Correct) The policeman has arrived. (Correct) The police officer dresses smartly. (Correct) The police command is well equipped. (Correct) Two policemen have arrived. (Correct) Bursting or busting? In the case of busted vs bursted, you should never forget that ‘burst’ is an irregular verb that, in many cases, does not change form whether it is in the present simple, past or participle realm. That is why a ball or a balloon may burst, and if the action happened a year ago, the object only burst, not bursted. This indicates that ‘bursted’ is wrong in the sentence we are examining. Don’t say, ‘The police bursted a person, place or crime.’ The right term for halting a crime and arresting those behind it is ‘bust’. The police do bust crimes, they don’t burst them. And, unlike ‘burst’, ‘bust’ is easily a transitive verb, as well as a regular one that accepts the past tense marker, -ed: The police has eventually bursted the suspect. (Wrong) The police have eventually bursted the suspect. (Wrong) The police have eventually busted the suspect. (Correct) The Unified Tertiary Matriculation Examination and West African Senior School Certificate Examination candidates should particularly remember that irregular verbs such as cut, hit, let and hurt do not accept -d or -ed. Similarly, they should always anticipate the examiner’s ploy to rattle them with homonyms. They should thus master the differences between pairs such as avoid and afford, access and assess, where and were, their and there, bear and bare, fear and fare (and fair), guerrilla and gorilla, harm and arm, plain and plane as well as lightning and lightening. Interestingly, such words are not only tested in the lexis and structure section; they can also be tested in the oral aspect of the exams. For instance, the examiner may ask you to identify the vowel sound in burst as against the one in bust; or the ones in beer and bare. The pronunciations may be similar, but they are definitely not the same as far as each of the pairs is concerned. Look up the words in the dictionary, particularly paying attention to their pronunciations.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com