A former Lagos State Governor and presidential aspirant in the All Progressives Congress, Bola Tinubu, on Tuesday night in Abuja, described the rising number of aspirants vying for the party’s presidential ticket as a plus for Nigeria’s democracy. Tinubu said this after meeting with the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), at the Presidential Villa, Abuja. The PUNCH had, on Tuesday, reported that the APC chieftain paid President Buhari a Sallah homage at his official residence at the Villa. Although it was learned that Tinubu congratulated the President for the successful Eid-el-Fitr celebrations across the country, the details of their meeting were not known at the time. New details emerging from the meeting revealed that, while responding to the increasing number of presidential aspirants in the APC, Tinubu said it portends a healthy democracy in Nigeria as leaders are not keen to abandon the country. Tinubu said, “The more the merrier. The more they come, the more challenging it becomes for you to think deeply, focus on issues and be ready to serve Nigeria. It’s all about service, it’s nothing else. Think wisely, get committed to your thinking to serve the nation and bring progress and prosperity to the lives of Nigerians. “It’s good for the country for so many of us to aspire to want to lead, we’re not abandoning our nation. But there’s only one chair and one possibility. We will do that.” As regards concerns about the unity of the APC after May’s primary elections, the former governor expressed confidence that the party would remain united. He affirmed, “We are sure that we will remain united. You know our symbol is the broom, you don’t break it as you go. Nigeria requires commitment, a uniform system and a stable country and that is the only way we can be very proud of Nigeria. “The President has shown a great example of leadership, giving us the freedom to say you want to run, you want to attempt, go ahead. He is a democrat and if we are running a constitutional democracy, you don’t hinder the desire, the wish of other people.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com