The Nigeria Immigration Service has elevated 98 senior officers to new ranks following their successful performance in a promotion exercise conducted for senior officers in December 2021. According to a statement on Saturday by the Service Public Relations Officer, Amos Okpu, the promotion notice is contained in a letter from the Civil Defence, Correctional, Fire and Immigration Services Board dated May 20, 2022. Okpu said, “Four Assistant Comptrollers General have been promoted to the rank of Deputy Comptroller-General; 24 Comptrollers got elevated to the rank of Assistant Comptroller-General of Immigration; while 70 Deputy Comptrollers were promoted to the rank of Comptroller of Immigration. “Those promoted to the rank of Deputy Comptroller-General of Immigration include Josephine Kwazu; Modupe Anyalechi; Muhammad Muhammad; Ajoke Talabi. “The officers promoted to the rank of Assistant Comptroller General of Immigration include: Nandap Nanna, the current Comptroller at the Murtala Mohammed International Airport, Ikeja Lagos; Ahmed Aliyu, the Principal Staff Officer to the acting Comptroller General; Abdullahi Musa, the Comptroller in-charge of Migration at the Service Headquarters; Amao Michael, the current Comptroller of Ogun State Command; Alawode Betty, the Comptroller in-charge of Gender and Staff Welfare; Acholonu Alphonsus, the current Comptroller of Ekiti State Command, among others.” Other officers promoted to the rank of Comptroller of Immigration include Adesokan Adeola, currently at the Training and Staff Development Division, Service Headquarters; Bagari Dauda, at the Visa and Residency Directorate, Service Headquarters; Bewaji Oladoyin, the current Passport Control Officer, Ikoyi Passport Office Lagos; Onuora Nwama; Kila Sani, the current Passport Control Officer, Kano Passport Office, among others. While congratulating the officers, the acting Comptroller General, Isah Idris, expressed his appreciation to the government for considering them worthy of promotion. He urged the newly promoted officers to continue demonstrating high level of commitment and efficiency in service delivery to justify their promotion. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com