The leadership of Amotekun Corps in Osun State, on Wednesday, paraded suspected criminals arrested in different parts of the state for various crimes. Giving details of the offences committed by one of the suspects, the Osun Field Commander of Amotekun, Amitolu Shittu, said a 31-year-old Kola Ademola was arrested by the operatives for robbery. Shittu said Ademola, who was arrested in Ila-Orangun, usually feigned insanity and was nabbed along Ikirun road while fleeing with a stolen motorcycle. The Amotekun boss said, “the said motorcycle was stolen at the residence of one Tunde, living around Oke-Ogun in Ila. Our investigations further revealed that Ademola always pretends to be insane whenever he wants to commit the act. “Our investigation also revealed that he has committed several crimes in the past. He stole a motorcycle from Ibadan and sold it at Ila. He also stole in Ila and sold in Ibadan.” Also paraded were Elijah Olamilekan, 23, and his friend, Afeez Adegoroye, 24, who were allegedly arrested for the alleged gang rape of a teenager. Shittu said the suspects were also members of an unlawful society and recorded their acts on the phone while sexually assaulting the victim. The two who claimed to be cocoa and cashew nut sellers afterward confirmed that they were members of Alora fraternities. Shittu said, “Olamilekan Elijah is from Ola-Ejigbo while Adegoroye Afeez is from Oba’s compound in Bodeosi. Their victim, an apprentice at Iwo, living in the Oke Bode area of the community was lured to Adegoroye’s house. The 17-year-old girl was raped by the two suspects and they filmed the act. “They also threatened to release the video on social media if she attempt to inform anybody of what transpired. Our investigations also revealed that the two suspects are members of the Buccaneers Confraternity otherwise known as the Alora.” But while responding to questions from The PUNCH, Adegoroye said the victim was his girlfriend and refused him sex on the day she visited him. He admitted raping her because she refused to have sex with her, adding that his friend did not have sex with the victim. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com