The President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), on Friday, met with some northern governors and heads of security agencies at the Presidential Villa, Abuja. The closed-door meeting, which began at around 3pm, held in the Council Chambers of the State House. Those in attendance included Governors Nasir El-Rufai of Kaduna, Simon Lalong of Plateau, Abdullahi Ganduje of Kano, Aminu Tambuwal of Sokoto, Sani Bello of Niger, Abubakar Badaru of Jigawa, Bello Matawalle of Zamfara, Atiku Bagudu of Kebbi and Babagana Zulum of Borno. Saturday PUNCH gathered that governors Mai Mala Buni of Yobe and Bello Masari of Katsina were expected, but could not make it to Abuja. Also in attendance were the Minister of Defence, Maj. Gen. Bashir Magashi (retd.), National Security Adviser, Maj. Gen. Babagana Monguno (retd.); the Chief of Defence Staff, Gen. Lucky Irabor; Chief of Army Staff, Lt. Gen. Farouk Yahaya; Chief of Naval Staff, Vice Admiral Awwal Gambo; and the Chief of Air Staff, Air Marshal Isiaka Amao. The Inspector-General of Police, Usman Baba; the Director-General of the Department of State Services, Yusuf Bichi; and the Director-General of the National Intelligence Agency, Ahmed Abubakar, was also present. However, at press time, there was no official statement providing details about the issues discussed. More so, none of the attendants agreed to talk to State House Correspondents. A top Presidency source, however, revealed to our correspondent that the meeting revolved around the security issues prevalent in some parts of the North, particularly in the states of the governors present at the meeting. The source, who spoke under anonymity, said, “The meeting was meant to find a sustainable solution to the security issues those northern states. If you observe, the problems of all the states represent there are similar – banditry and terrorism. So it’s more of a central situation room thing.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com