Dr Tinuade Sanda is the first female Chief Executive Officer of Eko Electricity Distribution Company. She tells BLESSING ENENAITE about her career, achievements and other issues Tell us about your background. I am the first child in a family of two children. My dad is late and my mum retired as a nurse. I studied Accounting at the Obafemi Awolowo University, Osun State, and I graduated with a second class upper degree in 2001. I went on to obtain a Master’s degree in Business Administration with specialisations in Strategic Planning from the Edinburgh Business School, Herriot Watt University, Scotland, United Kingdom. I have also attended several courses, including the Strategic Financial Analysis for Business Evaluation Programme at the Harvard Business School, United States of America. I also bagged a Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) in Financial Management and Entrepreneurship from the Icon University of Management Science and Technology, Benin Republic, in December 2020. In March, 2022, I was appointed as the first female Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer of Eko Electricity Distribution Company. How do you feel being the first female MD/CEO of EKEDC? It means that hard work gets noticed. It is a call for me to do more and serve. It shows that one can be whatever one wants to be. I did not expect it but it came, and I am grateful that I am in this position. It also means that gender equality in the work place is recognised. It means that anybody, as long as one has the qualities and criteria, can be given such an opportunity. What are your duties as the MD of EKEDC? I will like to speak about my duties broadly and specifically. My broad duties include leading the management of the company for operational excellence to ensure that we give our customers quality service. Also, our business is to give our customers uninterrupted power supply when possible. My duty is to ensure our customers get fair billing for whatever electricity they consume. I also ensure there is timely communication with our customers when there are outages. On the other hand, my specific roles as the MD of the company include leading our team to achieve our goals and deliver power (electricity) in a healthy and safe manner. Also, it is to ensure that all stakeholders in the sector, especially those that have put in money, get returns on their investment. I ensure that the welfare of employees is well taken care of. For the regulators, I ensure we comply with the laid down policies and regulations, and meet our market obligations. It is also my duty to give directions to the team in actualising our goals and mission. What are the elements that brought you this far? I have always been a positive-minded person and I am result-driven. I have high emotional intelligence as well. I know how to work under pressure. I understand numbers. Being an accountant, I know how to manage scarce resources and give out high returns. What are the challenges you met in your office and how do you intend to tackle them? The challenges we met included liquidity issues, insufficient power from the (national) grid, customer agitation because we do not have enough power to give them, and aged infrastructure. We need to replace our cables and other infrastructure. There aren’t enough funds in the sector for Capex loans (capital expenditure or capital expense, which is the money a project/company spends to buy, maintain or improve fixed assets). Some financial institutions in the country do not want to give out long-term loans. They would rather give short-term loans. For one to have fair returns in the power sector, one needs a financial institution or investor that can give long-term loans that we can use to provide the turnaround that is expected in the power sector. What was your career trajectory before assuming your present office? I started my career in banking, and within that sector, I had different jobs. I was the treasury manager in Chartered Bank between 2000 and 2001. I later joined Access Bank in 2001, where I gained extensive experience in branch operations, customer service, cash management and retail credit management. Prior to joining EKEDC in 2013, I was the Head, Finance and Administration at Vanguard Energy Resources— an oil and gas trading services company. I am versatile in the areas of financial reporting, treasury management, taxation, mergers and acquisitions, finance regulation, risk management and financial modelling. I was the first Chief Finance Officer of West Power and Gas Limited— a special purpose vehicle that successfully acquired a 60 per cent controlling stake in EKEDC. Prior to that, I was the Chief Treasury and Taxation Officer, Acting Chief Finance Officer and Chief Accounting Officer of EKEDC, where I was responsible for managing the financial operations of the business. I am an expert in the power and finance sector with extensive experience in the power sector. I hold awards and prestigious memberships of many professional bodies in Nigeria and abroad, including being a fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Nigeria, Institute of Management Consultants, Institute of Credit Management Administration, and Institute of Professional Financial Managers, United Kingdom. I am also an associate member of the Risk Management Association of Nigeria and the Institute of Directors, Nigeria. Did you envisage that you would get to this position when you joined EKEDC? Honestly, I did not envisage this. However, I had always told myself that by the time I am 40 years old, I would be working for myself. I tried and I know I will (still) get there. God has a better plan (smiles). Electricity supply is a major issue in Nigeria. Do you think it can ever be solved? It is a recurring issue because the power demands of today are more than what the grid is generating, and what we are able to supply. So, there is always a gap. To solve this problem, we can look into renewable energy, alternative power supply and more generating companies. We need to fix transmission as well. The distribution companies need to invest in the sector, so that when power is generated by the generating companies, it can be supplied to the man on the street, which is the value chain system. All those in the value chain must invest. That is when we can see necessary improvements. More so, electricity is the bedrock of any industry. One needs power to do business and when power is expensive, it affects the cost of doing business. How would you describe the current power situation in the country? It is seriously in a dire situation. We have experienced a series of gas shortages, system collapse and vandalisation within our network. However, in the last one week, it has been getting better. We have gone back to about 5000 megawatts nationwide, out of which we (EKEDC) get 11 per cent to distribute to our licensed areas. If it is sustained, we would start seeing some improvements. On our part, we try to manage and improve electricity supply to our customers. Business areas have more power during the day while residential areas have more power at night. That is how we create a balance for our customers. You have been working with EKEDC for about a decade. What are the common complaints the company has got and how were they resolved? A lot of our customers complain about estimated or unfair billing. They complain about inadequate power supply and our transformer being overloaded. Also, they complain about low voltage. In recent times, we have invested in many Capex projects, transformers and network improvement to alleviate some of these problems. Also, we have invested in feeder repairs, so that the quality of power supply can improve. In terms of quantity, we get power from the grid, and we are also putting in more efforts to supply more power to our customers. In terms of high billing, we have worked on that. We have also set up a rapid response team to attend to customers’ complaints. We have also improved on our communication with our customers. You studied Accounting. How do you intend to use this knowledge to your advantage as the MD/CEO of EKEDC? Accounting entails accurately keeping records, making sound financial decisions and projections. That background helps me to make sound decisions, as well as in strategic planning and execution. Being an accountant also helps me to manage scarce resources to get high returns. In addition, it helps in financial management, cash flow and knowing how to cast everything down to the numbers for better results. Over the years, people have complained about high electricity bills not being commensurate with inadequate power supply. What’s your reaction to that? I will not neglect the  fact that there are times when there are issues that need to be corrected. When anyone communicates their complaints about high billing, we look into it and make amends when necessary. There is a methodology we use. When there is a need for adjustment and it has been clearly justified, we ensure it is effectively done too. In what areas do you think EKEDC can do better in terms of quality service delivery? We can do better in our response time to faults, and our communication with customers when we have power outages. We can also do better in creating a balance and ensuring proper allocation of power. We have started working on this and we will definitely improve on it. Some staff members of EKEDC have been harassed by customers who are not satisfied with services being rendered, especially when the former tries to disconnect wires of a particular building or area. What measures are you putting in place to ensure that this not happen again? Through customer engagement, we have been reiterating and communicating with our customers that assault is a criminal offence. If they have grievances, they should approach our customer care (department) or customer care touch points. Assaulting our staff is not acceptable. We have also trained our staff that when they are in awkward situations which can lead to assault, they should pull back from such areas. When we see such occurrences, we involve litigation. We resort to the law because the Lagos State government has made a law against this act. We have also carried out awareness campaigns with our employees to let them know that when the situation is tense, it is not safe for them to work. In some instances, we also engage the leaders in such communities and reach out to them when we notice that things are getting tense. We communicate more with customers too. Have you experienced any form of embarrassment because of the company you work with? Yes, I have. My son asked me one day, “Mummy are you sure you work with EKEDC? How come we don’t have light?” (laughs). There are times I don’t want people to know where I work, (especially) when I am in social gatherings. The first time I used an EKEDC nose mask was the last time I used it. I wore it to a pharmaceutical store to buy medicine and someone approached me and asked, “So, you work with EKEDC?” (laughs). I did not try to use the mask again because it has the logo of the company on it. Notwithstanding, we all know what customers want. They want stable power supply. They want us to attend to their complaints. As a responsible organisation, we have put more measures in place to ensure that we are more responsive to our customers’ complaints, and we communicate better with them. In the past, staff of EKEDC have threatened to go on strike. What were their grievances and what measures have been put in place to ensure a better working environment in the company? I am not aware of anyone in EKEDC that threatened to go on strike. It has not happened in the last nine years. In terms of the national body, there were such agitations initially when the privatisation was just done. And, it had to with their external entitlements that the Federal Government was meant to have settled, including the pension scheme that was supposed to be set up for them. At EKEDC, we try to be competitive in our welfare benefits. We are a positive organisation that believes in fair remuneration. We also ensure that we train our employees, and we have a fair scheme for annual promotions. In addition to that, we have bonus and incentive schemes for outstanding employees. This has helped us to motivate our staff. We all dialogue and don’t have such threats within EKEDC. In what ways do you think business can thrive in a challenging economy? Businesses can only thrive in a conducive environment. When government policies are favourable, businesses would thrive. How do you bring out the best in your staff? Through encouragement, reward of performance and other incentives to appreciate them. We also celebrate with our staff on their special occasions. It does not matter who anybody is on the team, we appreciate everybody. We use motivation and training to also bring out the best in them. Have you ever been in a disadvantaged situation because of your gender? No, I have not. My employers are very fair. What other goals do you desire to achieve as the MD/CEO? I will ensure we meet our targets. It is my desire to see that my customers are satisfied. This year, we want to improve our customer satisfaction index. We want to measure how our customers perceive us. It is my desire to see that we rank high in a positive light. It is also my desire that my employees are rewarded for the hard work they put into the company. We want to be among the top 10 companies in Nigeria that pay well. What are your most notable moments as a staff of EKEDC? One of them was when I was announced as the Deputy Managing Director of the company in February. It was quite memorable for me, even more than when I was announced as the MD/CEO. I have been asked to lead different projects outside of my comfort zone at Eko Disco. I have been able to deliver on these projects, and I was celebrated by the board and management of the company. Those have been quite memorable for me. You are a fashionable person. What inspires you fashion-wise? That has always been my style. I got it from my mum. She is someone that if she wears pink bag, she complements it with a pink shoe. It has been a part of me since I was a child. What are the factors that keep you going? I am a positive-minded person and that keeps me going. I hardly take ‘no’ for an answer. I usually tell my staff that I don’t take ‘no’. I have a ‘yes, I can do it’ spirit and this keeps me going. In addition, I have faith in God and that has also helped me. Regardless of the challenges I face, I always have faith in God. Who are your biggest cheerleaders? My parents are my biggest cheerleaders, especially my late dad. When I was in secondary school, my father would always be in the audience (for different events). Even when it was not convenient for him, he would still be there for me. My children are also my cheerleaders, especially my daughter. Have you ever felt like giving up? No. However, I have experienced some challenging times. There are times that work could be overwhelming. However, just speaking to one or two people and getting words of encouragement brightens my spirit. I might feel down for some hours but I don’t let it stay overnight. What other achievements do you aspire for? I aspire to be an icon within and outside Nigeria. I want to be an inspiration to young people, especially females. I want to tell them they can be whatever they desire to be. I want to be a motivation to young girls who have big dreams. I want them to persevere and not give up on their dreams. How do you effectively juggle between your familial duties and family? I deliberately create time to bond with my kids. We watch movies together, go to church together and also pray together. I also create time to go through their school work and listen to them if they have any challenges. I have a group of friends that we meet once in a month. We talk about several things. They are not people in my field but from other areas, and we try to learn from one another. What are your other areas of interest? Service to humanity is one of my passions. I volunteer a lot in my spare time. I volunteer to teach, mentor and counsel people. In my church, I am part of the counselling group, and my aim is simply serve humanity. What is your favorite fashion accessory? I love bags and shoes, and I have plenty of them (laughs). How do you unwind? I love listening to music because it calms me. Also, I love dancing, even though I don’t know how to dance. My kids have told me that I dance out of rhythm (laughs). I also love to watch movies, but I don’t have time for that anymore. What is your favourite food? I love rice with stew, plantain and fish. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com