A human rights group, Take It Back Movement, in Delta State, has vowed to hold a protest following the alleged failure of the police, Zone 5 Division of the state, to make its vehicle available for an investigation into a case of trafficking. In a statement made available on Wednesday, signed by the coordinator, Ighorhiohwunu Aghogho, it was alleged that the police had been reluctant to provide police vehicles and other logistics to investigate activities that concerned the rescue of children who were victims of massive child trafficking, and the arrest of the culprits involved. It said that this was despite the promise of the Police Public Relations Officer, CSP CSP Olumuyiwa Adejobi, to make the vehicles available. The statement partly read, “The Delta State Chapter of the Take It Back Movement, has threatened mass protest over the reluctance of the Assistant Inspector-General, Zone 5, to provide police vehicles for investigation of activities in a case of massive trafficking of children in Delta State. “The Investigating Police Officer and 2ice X-Squad, Zone ‘5’, Police Headquarters, Benin, one Inspector Benson, has said that the Assistant Inspector-General of Police in charge of Zone ‘5’ Benin, AIG Lawan Tanko Jimeta, has been reluctant to provide police vehicles and other logistics for investigation. “The Nigerian Police Force Public Relation Officer, CSP Olumuyiwa Adejobi, who had also promised the leadership of TIB, Delta State chapter, that his office will liaise with AIG Lawan Tanko Jimeta to provide police vehicles for the investigating activities, has not yielded result because the said CSP Olumuyiwa Adejobi is claiming that the AIG has traveled outside the country and until his return, there is nothing that can be done. We consider CSP Olumuyiwa’s claim as a slight on the face of the Inspector General of Police. “It should be noted that the IGP of Police has called for the review of the investigation contained in the aforesaid petition dated March 18, 2022, brothering on massive child trafficking, banditry, and terrorism in Delta State by government officials, police officers, and other individuals. “We have engaged all relevant offices at Zone ‘5’ Police Headquarters, Benin, concerned with this case to provide police vehicles for the investigation activities but we have not gotten a reasonable response yet, they kept on saying there are no vehicles in the zone. We have also communicated with the AIG Lawan Tanko Jimeta via text message, but we have yet to receive a response. “This investigation is very sensitive, apart from the huge cost of hiring private vehicles for a period of one week which is what the zone is trying to insinuate, the risk of engaging private vehicles not bearing the emblem of the Nigeria Police Force is another factor to be considered in this kind of investigation involving children. We find it very worrisome that a whole Zone ‘5’ Headquarters of the Nigeria Police Force do not have a police vehicle to carry out an investigation activity as it concerns children. “The police is expected to take over 10,000 children who were victims of massive child trafficking into police emergency protection and shut down over 30 child trafficking centres in Delta State.” The group concluded by saying, “We hereby call for the intervention of the Inspector-General of Police in this regard to swiftly intervene as the situation is becoming embarrassing to the nation and to further stop the breakdown of law and order.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com