Singer Adekunle Gold and his musician wife, Simi, on Monday, marked the second birthday of their daughter, Adejare. The duo took to their individual social media pages to pen heartfelt messages for their daughter. On her Instagram page, Simi described Adejare as her “most precious, most wonderful gift,” as she also showered prayers on the celebrant. Simi wrote, “My baby. My twin. You’re a wonder. You’re everything I prayed for and then much more. If I start to mention them now, it will turn to bragging. But I don’t love you because of how smart you are. “I love you because you are the light of my life. I’m so proud to be your mummy. You’re my biggest, most precious, most wonderful gift. “Your life and future are, as they have been since your conception, in the hands of God Almighty. Therefore you cannot fail. You cannot suffer. You will prosper. You will thrive. You will shine so bright in all the days of your long, fruitful life. “You will be as strong as you are kind. Darkness will fear and evade you because God’s light will radiate from you and your spirit. “I pray that you love and know God by and for yourself. All In Jesus’ Mighty name. I love you Adejare. My Joy. Ayo mi. I love you most of all. Happy Birthday, Deja.” Adekunle Gold, on his Facebook page, wrote, “My baby is two today and I’m so so emotional! Watching you grow has been joyful and a wonder. You are way too smart sometimes I wonder how it’s possible for you to know the things you know. “You came into our lives and changed them completely! I’m so much happier with you in my world. I love you so much and there’s absolutely nothing I wouldn’t do for you Dej.” The couple got married on January 9, 2019, and welcomed their daughter in 2020. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com