The Nigerian Communications Commission has advised telecom consumers and other Information and Communications Technology end users on the need to always enable automatic update features for AVAST and AVG antiviruses. In a statement released on Sunday by the NCC Director of Public Affairs, Ikechukwu Adinde, enabling automatic updates on antiviruses can prevent potential cyber vulnerabilities. The statement was based on a new advisory released by the NCC’s Computer Security Incident Response Team, which was created to ensure Nigerians’ safety in cyberspace. The statement partly read, “The advisory noted that cyber vulnerability in AVAST and AVG Antiviruses can lead to attacks on millions of devices with high impact in terms of consequences to the ICT user. “The threat types as a result of this vulnerability are Bypass Authentication, Remote Code Execution and Unauthorised Access while consequences range from Privilege Escalation, Bypass Security Products, Overwrite System Components and corrupting the Operating System.” The CSIRT said in the advisory, “Two vulnerabilities identified as CVE-2022-26522 and CVE-2022-26523 targeted the “Anti Rootkit” driver of Avast antivirus (also used by AVG) allowing an attacker with limited privileges on the targeted system to execute code in system mode (kernel mode) and take complete control of the device. “Moreover, the vulnerabilities allow complete take-over of a device, even without privileges, due to the ability to execute code in kernel mode.” NCC noted that to prevent being vulnerable to cyber threats, users should enable automatic update features for AVAST and AVG antiviruses, upgrade AVAST and AVG antiviruses to version 22.1.2504, as well as carry out regular patch management. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com