A former Resident Electoral Commissioner of the Independent National Electoral Commission in Benue State, Nentanwe Yilwatda, has won the Plateau State All Progressives Congress governorship ticket. Dr Yilwatda polled a total of 803 votes to beat three other aspirants during the primary election held at Landfield Park, Rayfield in Jos. The results were announced in the early hours of Friday. Other aspirants who participated in the election are Garba Paul, who scored two votes; Deputy Governor of Plateau State Prof. Sonny Tyoden, with 25 votes; and Hon. Victor David Dimka who got seven votes respectively. Chairman of the Electoral Panel Committee, Rt. Hon. Habu Ajiya, while declaring Dr. Nentawe Yilwatda winner of the election on Friday Morning in Jos explained that nine aspirants were in the race but five aspirants later sent their letters of withdrawal from the contest. Aspirants who withdrew include Sunday Garba Biggs, Dr. Sarpiya Danyaro, Sen. Hezekiah Dimka, Dr. Patrick Dakum and Arch. Fitka. During the conduct of the primary, some aspirants including the Deputy Governor, Professor Sonni Tyoden; Dr Patrick Dakum; and David Dimka had staged a walkout just after about three local government delegates alleged irregularities. However, the Electoral Panel committee headed by Rt. Hon. Habib Ajiya described the governorship primary election of the APC in the state that produce Yilwatda as the flagbearer of the party as peaceful, free and fair. Speaking after being declared the winner, Dr Nentawe Yilwatda in his acceptance speech pledged to ensure that the state is secure and united for more development if elected the Governor of the State. He called on the other aspirants who contested with him to accord him the support for the goal of achieving a greater Plateau State. Dr Yilwatda, who is now the APC candidate from Kanke Local Government of the state will now battle the PDP governorship candidate, Barr. Caleb Mutfwang from Mangu Local Government of the state at the 2023 general elections. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com