A former Minister of State for Defence and senatorial and an All Progressives Congress senatorial aspirant, Musiliu Obanikoro, has rejected the outcome of the senatorial primary of the Lagos West Senatorial District on Saturday. A former Deputy Governor Lagos State, Oluranti Adebule, was announced as the winner of the senatorial ticket. The chairman of the Senatorial Electoral Committee, Emeka Okafor, declared that Adebule polled 424 votes to emerge winner of the senatorial ticket ahead of Obanikoro, who got 119 votes, and the third contender, Opeifa Kayode, who scored four votes. Accepting the outcome of the poll, Adebule said, “I commend the leaders of our party, our national leader, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu,  for this day and I pray that God, who has made this today, will also  grant him victory to emerge the President of Nigeria, so that he will contribute to  the development of this country. “I appreciate the electoral committee, the Independent  National  Electoral Commission, state executive members of our great party, I thank you all immensely for your contributions. I thank the delegates for this victory; I thank our able governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu. “Our delegates performed so well. I treasure what you have done today and I know that our party will treasure what you done too. “The contributions of my co-aspirant, Kayode Opeifa is highly commendable  and I also appreciate greatly Honourable Mudashiru Obasa, the Speaker of the Lagos State House of Assembly for what happened today.” However, Obanikoro, in a statement signed by Tunji Adunbarin, expressed disappointment in the poll. Obanikoro contended that Adebule was not qualified to participate in the poll, adding that the exercise was “fraught with intimidations and other malpractices which it will address with the party in due course.” Obanikoro claimed that Adebule was not qualified to contest for the primary because she did not participate “in the electoral process of obtaining the expression of interest and nomination forms, neither did she participate in the screening.” The statement was titled, “We Are Dissatisfied With the Outcome of Lagos West Primary Election, Says Obanikoro Campaign Organisation.” The group alleged that “the acclaimed winner was not even qualified to stand for the election having not participated in the electoral process of obtaining the Expression of Interest and Nomination Forms neither did she participate in the screening, while she did not also submit (any document). “The Senator Obanikoro Campaign Organisation hereby rejects the outcome of the primary election held on Saturday. “It was obvious that the exercise was designed to favour the acclaimed winner who was not even qualified to stand in for the election. “In due course, our grievances and all other necessary steps would be made formally to the party.” Meanwhile, senator representing Lagos East Senatorial District, Tokunbo Abiru, won the APC ticket unopposed with a total of 344 votes. Similarly, the Deputy Speaker of the Lagos State House of Assembly, Wasiu Eshinlokun-Sanni, also clinched the APC ticket for the Lagos Central Senatorial District. Eshinlokun-Sanni scored 185 votes to defeat his closest rival, Demola Seriki, who polled 97 votes. Other contestants, Akeem Apatira and Oyinlomo Danmole scored 22 votes and zero vote, respectively. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com