Many people were injured in Idanre, Idanre Local Government Area of Ondo State as some suspected political thugs attacked members of the ruling All Progressives Congress on Wednesday. It was gathered that the victims who were supporters of the House of Assembly aspirant Princess Tosin Ogunlowo were returning from the party secretariat in Akure, the state capital, in a convoy when the hoodlums allegedly waylaid them and attacked them with guns and cutlasses and other dangerous weapons. An eyewitness stated that the thugs attacked the politicians who were in a convoy of four vehicles at Italorun village along Idanre-Akure road. “The aspirant was returning from Akure to Idanre where she went to submit her nomination form, with her supporters. So along the road, the thugs came out and attacked them with guns, cutlasses, and broken bottles and they inflicted injuries on her supporters. They also vandalised the vehicles in the convoy,” the eyewitness narrated. He however noted that the aspirant escaped the attack unhurt while those injured were rushed to the hospital for treatment. One of the victims, Mr Gbodi Bamidele, who is also the leader of the Idanre Local Government Legislative Council, said the attack was a sponsored one alleging that one man, popularly known as ‘Prof’ led the thugs to carry out the attack. He said, “We are coming from Akure where our aspirant went to submit her nomination form.  When we got to Oja Anaye, one of the thugs called Prof came with others to attack us. They came with guns , bottles of beer and cutlasses. Our members were seriously injured. They have been taken to the hospital. When contacted, the state Police Public Relations Officer, Mrs Funmilayo Odunlami, confirmed the incident, saying it was a fight between supporters of two political aspirants in the area but said the police had intervened and calmed the situation. “There was an altercation between the supporters of two aspirants in the area, it led to shoot out, the police from Idanre Division was able to maintain peace while the victims have been taken to the hospital,” the PPRO stated. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com