Muslims in Nigeria on Monday celebrated the Eid-el-Fitr, marking the end of the Ramadan fast, amidst tight security. In Abuja, the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), joined other Muslim faithful at the parade ground of the Mambila Barracks to perform the Eid-el-Fitr prayer. The News Agency of Nigeria reported that the Nigerian leader, accompanied by some of his family members and personnel aides, arrived at the venue of the event at about 9am. Others at the praying ground included some members of the Federal Executive Council, security chiefs, heads of para-military organisations and government officials. NAN reports that the two-raka’at prayer was led by the Chief Imam of the Barracks, Muhammad Dahey-Shuwa, who spoke on the significance and spiritual values of the just concluded Ramadan fast. Dahey-Shuwa, in his sermon, also prayed for peace and stability of the country, calling on citizens to continue to pray and support the nation’s security agencies in their fight against terrorism and violent crimes across the country. NAN reports that President Buhari, who briefly responded to questions after the prayer session, admitted to be having sleepless nights over the security situation in parts of the country. He, however, promised to spare no efforts at dealing decisively and mercilessly with the criminal gangs. On the forthcoming general elections, the president reaffirmed the commitment of his NAN reports that Monday’s Eid prayer was the first time the president would be observing the session outside the presidential Villa since the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic, two years ago. Muslims in Imo State also marked the Eid-el-Fitr amidst tight security. The PUNCH reports that there was heavy presence of armed security operatives around the Central Mosque in Orlu Road and the Douglas Road mosques, both in Owerri, the state capital. Non-Muslim residents of the state however stayed away from the streets, in partial compliance to the routine Monday sit-at-home order by the proscribed Indigenous People of Biafra. Speaking after the Eid prayers, the leader of the Northern and Muslim communities in Imo, Alhaji Auwal Baba-Sulaiman, advised Muslims in the state to remain prayerful for the peace, unity, and stability of the country and for the smooth conduct of the 2023 general elections. In Kwara State, security operatives, including soldiers, policemen and personnel of the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps mounted tight security in and around Ilorin Eid praying ground as Muslims marked the end of Ramadan fast. The state police command had on Friday banned any form of political campaigns, slogans and praise singing at the praying ground to forestall any break down of law and order. The security personnel besieged the praying ground and its environs in large number, controlling vehicular movement and guiding the faithful to the praying ground. The State Governor, AbdulRahaman AbdulRazaq, and top members of his cabinet attended the prayer session. The Emir of Ilorin, Alhaji Ibrahim Sulu-Gambari, and his chiefs were also at the prayer ground while the Chief Imam of Ilorin, Sheikh Bashir Salihu, led the two- rakah prayer. In his sallah message, AbdulRazaq congratulated Muslims on the completion of Ramadan fast which ultimately heralded the  Eid-el-Fitr. In Katsina, the State Governor, Aminu Masari; the Emir of Katsina, Dr. Abdulmumin Kabir; and Emir of Daura, Alhaji Faruk Usman, on Monday joined other residents of the state to celebrate the Eid- el- Fitri. Masari observed the prayers at the Shehu Usmanu Bin-Fodiyo Jumu’at mosque, Modoji Area, Katsina while the Emir of Katsina observed the prayers at Kofa Guga Eid Praying ground, Katsina. The Emir of Daura observed the prayers at the Daura Central Eid Praying Ground. The governor, in a brief message shortly after the prayers, urged residents to vote for candidates they believe would improve their lots in 2023. He also charged them to pray hard as part of efforts to improve the security and economic challenges facing Nigeria. Abia State Governor, Okezie Ikpeazu, has tasked Muslims in the state to seize the opportunity of the 2022 Sallah to pray for the sustenance of peace and security in the state and the country. In his Sallah message to the Muslims, Ikpeazu charged them to make the lessons of the Ramadan a permanent part of their lives. Also, Enugu State Governor, Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi, called on Muslims, and all Nigerians, to continue to pray fervently to God for peace, security, unity and progress of the country. Ugwuanyi, who made the call in his Sallah message, congratulated Muslims as they celebrate Eid-el-Fitri. Also, Sokoto State Governor, Aminu Tambuwal,  urged Nigerians to continue to corporate with security agents in the country so as to end insecurity in the land. The governor, in his Sallah broadcast to the people of the state, said his administration has not relented in its efforts to tackle insecurity through sustained support to security agencies and collaboration with the Federal Government and authority in Niger Republic. Governor Nasir El Rufai of Kaduna State advised Muslim faithful to extend the spirit of Ramadan into everyday life. The governor made this known while felicitating with Muslims across the state. In a statement by his Special Adviser on Media and Communication, Muyiwa Adekeye, the governor also urged citizens to keep hope alive amidst the current challenges. He also appealed to all residents to continue to live in peace, adding that his administration is committed to tackling the “security challenges and make our communities safer for life, liberty and livelihoods.” Osun State Governor, Adegboyega Oyetola, has charged politicians in the state to avoid anything that could threaten the peace of the state. Oyetola spoke on Monday after observing the Eid-el-Fitr prayers at the Osogbo Central Eid Praying Ground, Osogbo. A statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Ismail Omipidan, noted that Oyetola, who said politics should not be seen as a do-or-die affair, harped on the need for supporters of candidates and political parties in the state to maintain decorum and guide their public conduct before, during and after the forthcoming election. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com