The National Youth Service Corps has warned its drivers to be conscious of their health and conditions of their vehicles at all times in order to ensure their safety and that of other road users. A statement issued by the NYSC Director (Press and Public Relations), Eddy Megwa, said its Director-General,
Major General Shuaibu Ibrahim, stated this in his address at a workshop organised for NYSC drivers, with the theme; “The driver’s health status: A panacea for accident management and control.” According to him, the physical and mental health of all drivers is very critical to their overall performance. A healthy driver would drive well due to his alertness, as well as ability to process information for effective driving. He stated further that in order to avoid fatal road accidents, all drivers must take their health seriously and adopt healthy lifestyles. Ibrahim stated that road accidents have claimed many lives in recent times with some of the causative factors attributable to stress, sleep deprivation, fatigue, drunkenness, illness, bad eyesight, and drug abuse, among others. The Director-General said that as management was committed to the enhancement of the welfare and efficiency of staff, it would also intensify efforts aimed at safe driving among NYSC drivers. He said, “Apart from regular servicing of vehicles, we have accorded priority attention to the drivers’ health, especially through routine medical checks. Don’t joke about your health because you are very important to us and we cherish you. “Be very honest in your dealings and we don’t want to hear any case of misconduct from any of you. I am happy that NYSC staff are very wonderful people.” He Ibrahim advised the workshop participants who were drawn from all NYSC formations across the country to adhere to approved speed limits, carry out necessary checks on their vehicles before driving, and avoid alcoholic drinks, night journeys, among other risks. The Director (General Services), Emannuel Attah, in his welcome remarks said the promotion of healthy living at the workplace requires a holistic approach involving both private and official lifestyles. He urged the workshop participants to use the benefits of the workshop to improve their personal health, lifestyles, and attitude to work. Resource persons at the workshop include; Assistant Corps Commander Labaran Mustafa from the Federal Road Safety Corps and Odurukwe Olivia from Hillshore Clinic Limited. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com