The Coalition of South-East Youth Leaders has called on the General Overseer of the Deeper Life Bible Church, Pastor William Kumuyi, to go ahead and hold his crusade in Aba, Abia State. In a press release signed by its President-General, Goodluck Ibem, the group urged Pastor Kumuyi to “ignore the warning of the spokesman of the Indigenous People of Biafra, Emma Powerful, urging him to cancel his crusade in the South-East based on security concerns.” The group observed that “In the South-East, politicians, political parties are organising their campaigns, people are doing burial ceremonies to bury their loved ones, white wedding and traditional weddings are going on and Emma Powerful did not tell them not to do their programmes, and the same person is warning the General Overseer of Deeper Life Bible Church not to go ahead with his crusade.” “We are really surprised how Emma Powerful became so concerned about Pastor Kumuyi’s security. Kumuyi is a Man of God protected by the Most High God. It is not the business of anyone to worry about how Almighty God protects his servants. For Emma Powerful to suddenly ask the Man of God to call off his scheduled crusade leaves much to be desired. “Emma may not understand the impact of his statement by asking Kumuyi not to come to South-East. Asking the highly revered Man of God not to come to the South-East will cause serious fruition between the South-East and the South-West. “We call on Emma Powerful not to make such statement next time concerning a Man Of God serving the Almighty God. Such a statement is not deserving at all. “We call on Pastor Kumuyi to disregard the statement by Emma Powerful and come to the South-East to preach the gospel of the everlasting gospel of Jesus Christ to our people,” the youths said. According to them, “South-East is very safe. Businessmen and women have been coming to do their business without any molestation whatsoever. “We call on Emma Powerful to leave Christianity alone and concentrate on his agitation for Biafra.” IPOB had reportedly advised the General Superintendent of the Deeper Life Bible Church, Pastor William Kumuyi, to cancel the planned crusade in Abia State, because of security concerns in the South-East. In a statement yesterday, the group’s Media and Publicity Secretary, Emma Powerful, cautioned Kumuyi to take note of the security situation in the South-East as he would to Aba for his gospel crusade. Powerful said, “Let him and the organisers of the crusade make sure that nothing happens. The security of this region is not good, because of political and criminal activities; therefore, we advise him to stop this crusade for security reasons. “IPOB will not allow anyone to die because of this crusade scheduled to hold in Aba. The operation of criminals operating as unknown gunmen infiltrating the events is high and they will blame it on IPOB. “We ask him to pray for an end to the insecurity on Biafra land if he can. We charge Christians and men of God in Biafra land to engage God in fervent prayers to expose all those behind the insecurity in our land, and urge Kumuyi to pray against bad leaders and saboteurs in the South-East and Nigeria.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com