Former presidential aspirant, Adamu Garba, on Thursday, berated the All Progressives Congress over what he described as the party’s “over-financialisation of the political atmosphere”. This is as he also alleged that there is no “future for innovative youth” in the nation’s ruling party. Adamu stated this in a series of tweets on his Twitter handle where the former APC member apologised to Nigerian youths for being on the part of the ruling class rather than fellow citizens, particularly the youth. Garba had on Tuesday carpeted the APC for the processes adopted in producing its presidential candidate, noting that ‘only money matters’ to the ruling party. Garba, who also announced his withdrawal from the presidential race, said he had received the sum of N81,750,000.00 in private donations and N1,457, 794.70 in online donations. He said despite receiving the donations, he will not be obtaining the expression of interest and nomination form for the presidential race. “I write to notify Nigerians that after high-level deliberation with our campaign team, we have concluded that we will not be obtaining the expression of interest and nomination form for the office of the President of Nigeria under the platform of the APC. “Our generation should not set an example as part of the people that supported the financialization/commercialization of our political space, especially the public office, considering the prohibitive cost of the nomination forms. “We believe this action is capable of over-financializing our political space, institutionalizing vote buying, encouraging corruption, and completely obliteration the youth and the poor from participation,” Garba had said in a statement on Tuesday. But apologising to the youths on Thursday, Garba explained that he took the opposite stance against the demands of youths based on three convictions. He said, “Dear Nigerian Youth, I write to sincerely apologize for any of my actions or inactions that might have affected our relationship over time. Though inexcusable, I took these actions due to the following reasons: “I’m a radical patriotic Nigerian and can’t stand anything that threatens the stability and security of this country. “I had such high hopes that things will eventually get better, even as it get worst. I do not accept anything that could truncate our democracy and freedom. “It appears I was wrong in some ways, because things didn’t eventually get better, and in fact, it kept getting worst “I kept my hopes alive with the belief that changes can better be made from within. But is clear to me that in APC, there’s no plans or future for innovative youth. Painfully so is the over-financialisation of the political atmosphere. “In a third world country where money is generated from natural resources & not human brains, once financialised, there will be no incentive for human lives to get better. Resource will be the focus of leaders “This means, to some extend, it is better for people to keep dying and giving up on the country than to live and stay here. “The more they die or suffer or vacate the country, the less competition and pressure on the resources. That’s why our leaders don’t care, but we should. “I promise you that I am now fully reformed, baptized, and have realized some of my mistakes. I’m ready to move along with you to chart a new course for the future of Nigeria. We can’t do this with leaders living in the past. “I have a new deal for you. A NEW DEAL for the future. You have been making me since 2017, I’ve been there for you. You know me, as I endeavor to speak my mind, no filters, no packaging so that you can continue to make & shape me “You have shaped me enough, it is time to test me. It’s time to try a VISION beyond any past experiences. I am the leader you made. Take me, for my mistakes and imperfections and for my good vision, plans, and dreams for Nigeria. “In the 21st Century, we should replace all forms of past experiences with a Vision for the future. This is A NEW DEAL I have for you. Kindly accept my apologies.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com