Abia political stakeholders have urged political parties in Abia State not to field candidates against the Chief Whip of the Senate, Senator Orji Kalu. The group included traditional rulers, youth groups, Abia professionals, academics, prominent members of the political class, and top businessmen, under the aegis of Abia Stakeholders for Peace and Development. In a statement issued on Wednesday, made available to journalists, the group drummed support for the re-election of Kalu who is the Chief Whip of the Senate. The leader of the group, Kalu Ncheghe, said indices showed that the Senate Chief Whip had performed well. “The ANSPEN believes that Kalu’s performance as the senator representing the Abia North senatorial district is the best in the history of Abia State and Nigeria at large,” it stated. While appealing to the people of the Abia North senatorial district to continue to support the senator, Ncheghe noted that Kalu was ready to do more for the district. The statement partly read, “All political parties in Abia State should not bother fielding candidates against the Chief Whip of the Senate. Whether the PDP, APGA, APP, NNPP or SDP should not think of wasting their time, because we have resolved to return Senator Orji Uzor Kalu unopposed as the Senator representing the Abia North senatorial district in 2023. “Orji Kalu’s performance as a Senator is the best in the history of Abia State and Nigeria at large. We are bi-partisan and our interest is the development of the Abia North senatorial district. “We need to encourage and support his aspiration in 2023. If Nigerians don’t anoint him as the APC presidential candidate, we will love to see him in the red chambers again. “What he has done as a Senator is unprecedented. The building of roads, schools, and distribution of educational materials, is the first of its kind in Abia North senatorial district. The bills, motions, and infrastructure development are the best we have seen since 1999. “We should not joke with our best at this critical time. We need more development in Abia North. Therefore, I am appealing to all to continue to trust Senator Orji Uzor Kalu even beyond 2023 for more development. “We are ready to refund money to all the senatorial aspirants from Abia North senatorial district. Kalu is the consensus of all, including our traditional rulers.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com