Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike, has wondered what good works the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), has done that presidential aspirants of the All Progressives Congress are promising to consolidate. Wike, a Peoples Democratic Party presidential aspirant, said Nigerians were under the yoke of APC maladministration with intractable insecurity situation that has crippled the economy and increased hunger. Speaking in Yenagoa, the capital of Bayelsa State on Friday when he met with Governor Douye Diri at the Government House, Wike said God and Nigerians would forbid such successor to emerge, because the country must be freed from the festering insecurity, hunger, poverty and dwindling economic fortunes of Nigeria and its people. This was contained in a statement issued by Kelvin Ebiri, media aide to the governor and made available to newsmen in Port Harcourt. Wike said, “It is most unfortunate when I hear people declaring (intention to be president) under APC and saying they want to continue the good job of Mr President – the good job of people dying every day, the good job of naira falling every day. “I feel so ashamed that we have got to the level of sycophancy where people will come and say I want to continue the good job of Buhari. What is the good job of Buhari –  hunger, poverty, insecurity, economy falling? “I can’t believe that somebody will come out in today’s Nigeria and say I want to continue where Mr Buhari has stopped. May God never allowed that evil to continue.” Wike described himself as the most courageous leader who could lead Nigeria out of its present woes. He urged his Bayelsa State counterpart to support his presidential bid, saying he was contesting on behalf of the two sister states. In his response, Diri described Wike as a homegrown politician who understood the contending issues both in the South-South region, pledging that he would support his ambition. Diri said, “You could have as well say this is our state, I don’t need to come and campaign in Bayelsa; I don’t even need to come and see the delegates in Bayelsa, my brother governor is there, he will do it for me. And if you had called me on phone, I would have said, ‘Don’t come, stay back in Port Harcourt, we will do it for you.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com