Chairman, University of Lagos Faculty of Engineering Alumni Association, Mr Dideolu Falobi, in this interview, tells GRACE EDEMA that there is a need for government to lead the process  of industrialisation or Nigeria will die Why is the alumni association trying to raise a N500m fund for the Faculty of Engineering, UNILAG? We discovered that the faculty, in terms of infrastructure, and facilities, among others, is no longer operating the way it should. This had been discovered a long time ago, there has been a pocket of supports from different alumni to raise that standard to the level it should be. However, in 2017, the Alumni Association was formally inaugurated, and we then approached the faculty to find out what were their needs in terms of the scale of preference; what areas do they want assistance from? And they came up with this project because first, they have a primary challenge, with getting enough offices for the lecturers. They have challenges with the lack of enough classroom space for the students. And they felt we should come and assist them.  There is also a pocket of requests, which made us conclude that we needed to do something. Do you have a timeframe for the completion of the fundraising? Well, this executive hope we will be able to complete it within our tenure, we have just about a year left. Let me also say that some of those projects, we are already on it. One of them is an extension of the dean’s office and we provided one classroom for lecturers. One set has taken up that and completed it. Another one is four offices for lecturers, another set is already working on it. Basically, it’s an ongoing thing.  It has started, and the essence of this event on Thursday is to now draw particular attention to it and hopefully, we would be able to rally the alumni to put funds together at a faster pace. Yet it’s ongoing and we hope within the next calendar year we will be able to complete it. What are those things you will suggest to the university system to improve upon? Basically, there is a curriculum for every university. In terms of content, I’m not sure there is a big gap. Areas we have noticed some gaps in the curriculum are being filled, even by us the alumni association. There is also an industry advisory board, which was set up by the faculty, which is also filling that gap; which is the area of soft skills outside core engineering skills that are required as main auxiliaries to engineering skills. Those are already being looked at. And I am aware the university advisory board, coupled with the faculty, is also taking a second look, at the entire curriculum with a view to improving on the content. So there’s a continuous improvement. But the area that they need to look at is ISO system quality setup and management, health safety environmental and quality practice, computer regulation outside the regular ones that we do in school, so that when students are graduating they will be very proficient. These are some of the tools that they need as engineering students. These are some of the areas that need to be improved. But work is going on at the Faculty of Engineering, for example. But in terms of infrastructure there is a bigger gap. The same building, the same planning environment, the same number of classrooms, the same number of students, and basically it’s still in the faculty as the number of students is now double. Even the same machine we used in our own time; just a bit of improvement, but a lot of machines that we used are still what the students are using. So there is a need to upgrade in terms of the quality of equipment and machinery and learning tools that engineers are exposed to. Of course, we know that the world has moved to Artificial Intelligence. And an engineering student that comes out of the school that is not proficient, that does not understand artificial intelligence, will be deficient. These are areas that must be improved on. The learning method has now changed with COVID-19. The university is doing its bits. It’s been able to support the faculty in creating a very modern learning centre, which is artificial-enabled and internet-enabled. But it’s not enough. Every classroom, every learning space, should be completely internet-enabled. Then every inch of the university system should be internet-enabled. So these are some of the things that should be improved upon. Lest I forget, what also needs to be improved upon is the quality of life of the lecturers. It’s the major, major gap. I look at professors and doctors of 30 years in academia and the quality of life they are exposed to based on their wages is incommensurate. How can Nigeria achieve industrialisation? I’m happy this question came up because industrialisation is one of my research areas of interest. First, there are so many barriers in industrialisation in Nigeria. There is a high cost of finance, there is lack of power, there is corruption, there is regulatory inadequacy, so many things. But in spite of all those things, we must industrialise or we will die. It’s a matter of time, every day, Nigeria is dying gradually. And the fastest route out of it is industrialisation. Industrialisation builds skills. Industrialisation builds every raw material. So we must do it. What has been my theory over the years is that when you have such a very high barrier, and this is not the first time. Most of the countries in the world, their industrialisations have not been led by the private sector. They were led by the public sectors. Until we understand that it is the duty of the government to kick-start the process, we would continue to pay lip service to it. A lot of sectors will die because they don’t have the strength, the muscle and the shock absorber. My own belief is that the Federal Government must lead the process. And they must consciously evaluate the entire country and identify factories that can deal with different areas. It’s a state of emergency with a clear policy on it. And they must now decide how many services they want to set up as the first pile-up state across the country, using the initial state raw materials available in that environment. The moment that is done, they must set a target, concession it to private management after they have set it up and funded; concession it to private management, when evaluated; and run it up to three to five years and move it into the stock market. And if we put money in industries that are using locally produced materials, cultivating of such becomes interesting. Those are some of the multiplying effects of industrialisation. As I said earlier, we either industrialise or die. There is no two ways; there is no shortcut. We cannot be about 200 million people and we continue to import everything that we consume. No. whatever we consume, we must produce. Why has the government not industrialised? The government has not industrialised because there is this mindset, a cliché, that government has no business being in business. It is also assumed that government cannot run a business like everybody. So, the government should be producing the environment for businesses to thrive. That should be the normal scheme. But that is normal in a developed environment, where industries are already established. That’s normal, where the cost of finance is a single digit. So that applies, to me, in an environment that is already saturated with industries, with a thriving private-sector business, with low cost of finance, with good infrastructure, where the barrier is not high. That’s why the government has to get involved, but everyone is telling them you don’t have business doing business. Most of the companies of the Awolowo government are the ones that make up the Oodua Group today. And it was a public-sector initiative. In some cases they found them as green projects; in some cases, they went and invested in existing industries. And that for me is what we need to do. I want you to tell the stakeholders in basic education the importance of technical education The products coming out of there are not of good quality. Most of them are not of top quality. The quality of those who are coming out is so poor. That is the biggest challenge for those schools. The quality of those coming out is not good enough. Nobody has put attention in ensuring that those facilities are in place to train those children. Imagine a child in a technical school learning auto-mechanics and the entire period he ever spent in school he never saw a car. So everything he has done is theoretical. There are a few good ones, however, funded by the private sector. But generally; there is poor infrastructure; poor dilapidated tools; the same problem.  Engineering is development, as one of my mentors used to say. It’s important for our development; for everything technical, it should be properly taken care of; it should be done in a way that would meet international standards. What role can the engineering sector play in contributing to the development of Nigeria? All over, there is nothing you want to do that is not related to engineering. You want to set up a factory, it is engineering; you want to build communication, it’s engineering. You want to build roads, it is engineering. You want to build rail lines, it is engineering. There is nothing. However, it is how well we appreciate engineers; how well we understand their relevance to what we do; because you find out in today’s world those people that make decisions are not technical people. It depends on Nigeria: how much use they want to make of engineers. Now, the Nigerian Society of Engineers is encouraging Nigerian engineers to go into politics. Fine, there would be a critical line of people who think like that; who are development specialists. And that’s the way forward. Maybe when more engineers, more finance experts, more bankers go into politics, maybe there will be some changes. It’s not a do-or-die for engineers coming in if they are in politics. Maybe that can address the problem engineers are facing. Those who are controlling and managing Nigeria are not engineers. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com