The Lagos State Government has said all individuals, public and private project owners, and developers must subject all projects to Environmental Impact Assessment process and obtain EIA approval before implementation. It said those who fail to adhere to the directive will face the full weight of the law. According to a statement on Sunday, the state Commissioner for the Environment and Water Resources, Tunji Bello, disclosed this at a media parley in Alausa, Ikeja, over the weekend. The statement was signed by the Director (Public Affairs), Ministry of Environment and Water Resources, Kunle Adeshina. Adeshina quoted the commissioner as saying that time had come for all projects to be subjected to EIA in the conception stage because of the multifarious benefits. The statement read, “The commissioner explained that the establishment of industrial facilities, creation of new settlements, and construction of infrastructures come with huge adverse environmental impacts ranging from pollution of various environmental platforms to sometimes irreversible environmental degradation if not properly managed. “He said Lagos State over the years remains the preferred destination for many businesses operating within the various sectors of Nigeria’s economy attributing the business-friendly policies to the ever-growing population of the state. “He explained that it also provides huge market for goods and services coupled with the doggedness of the administration to provide necessary infrastructures and enabling environment for businesses to thrive.” “He said the preference can be likened to a two-sided coin as it comes with both benefits and challenges, stating that on one hand, it opens the state to economic prosperity and growth while on the other hand, it comes with various types of environmental and social challenges. “Bello said it has however become worrisome that many projects are ongoing in different parts of the State without consideration of EIA and EIA Approval.” Adeshina further quoted the commissioner as saying that the action of project owners or developers is tantamount to undermining the government’s efforts at protecting the state environment and safeguarding public health. He said globally, EIA has become a decision-making tool to protect the environment and Lagos State cannot be an exception.  All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com