The Ogun State Governor, Dapo Abiodun, on Sunday, lamented that cultism had crept into primary schools in the state and Nigeria. He lamented the situation where children in primary schools are now involved in cultism. The governor said this while speaking at the thanksgiving service for the Synod and Investiture of Diocesan Distinguished Fellows and Royal Fellows at the St. Barnabas Anglican Church, Okun-Owa Ijebu, in Odogbolu Local Government Area of the State. He urged Nigerians to obtain their Voter cards to exercise their civic rights in the forthcoming general election. He said, “The Bible says when the righteous rule, the people rejoice. Let us get our Voter cards to exercise our civic rights and vote credible people into government. “Let us stop complaining about the situation of things in the country. The people get the government they desire. “Nigeria, no doubt, is facing a lot of challenges. Cultism has become the order of the day. Kidnapping has become the fastest way of making money. “Our youths no longer want to work, but I believe that we will overcome our challenges with faith and hope in Christ. “As parents, we need to do our best by guiding them in the right way. Let us ask questions when necessary and ensure that our children, who are our future, are led rightly”. While calling on the people to join hands with the government in building the nation, Abiodun urged the people to have hope and faith in God as these challenges were not insurmountable. Speaking on the theme of the Synod, ‘Lift up your Eyes,’ the Bishop of Irele/Ese-Odo Diocese, Ondo State, Rt. Rev. Joshua Oyinlola, urged Nigerians not to sell their votes, but to vote according to their conscience, adding that sale of votes amounted to mortgaging their children’s future. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com