The killing and beheading of a lawmaker, representing the Aguata II Constituency, in the state House of Assembly, Okechukwu Okoye, and his aide, Cyril Chiegboka, has heightened the fear and tension of the Monday sit-at-home in Anambra State. It was observed that schools, parks, markets, banks, offices and roads were totally shut across the state on Monday. The lawmaker’s murder put more fears into the residents of the state prompting them to stay indoors totally, unlike other days, when there was scanty movement. Also, the incessant attacks on daily basis by unknown gunmen that resulted in scores of death and destruction of properties put more fear of uncertainty to the people . Consequently, business activities remained grounded. The ever-busy Onitsha/Owerri road was a ghost zone including Onitsha/Enugu expressway, Onitsha/Asaba/Benin/Lagos expressway and the Onitsha/Nnewi/Ekwulobia/Uga/Akokwa road. Reacting, a resident of Onitsha, said, “It is the worst today, Monday, because of the killing of a lawmaker and his aide by a yet to be identified gunmen. “Today’s sit-at-home is severe, unlike the previous ones when people would see very few inter state commuter buses. I didn’t see any open market in Onitsha today.” Also reacting, a lawyer in Awka who pleaded anonymity said, “I didn’t like the ugly situation now where innocent people like the lawmaker and others were slaughtered like cows. “That is why everybody is at home now, because of fear of the unknown. “I was told that criminals capitalised on the situation to maim, rob, steal, assault and extort money from unsuspecting innocent general public who refused to be indoors. “Markets, shops, even the schools, offices, courts and roads are shut and people are in their various homes playing indoor games and making fun”. A resident of Nnewi, Johnson Egbemu, said, “The state government should beef up security as hoodlums capitalised on the situation to commit all manners of crimes in the name of IPOB sit -at-home.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com