The takeover of some power distribution companies coupled with the precarious performance of the sector lately has raised doubts about the viability of the privatisation of the industry, OKECHUKWU NNODIM writes The Director-General, BPE, Alex Okoh,  announced this at the signing ceremony of the SPA in Abuja. In 2013, Yola Disco and 10 other Discos were officially privatised, but after about two years, the core investor in YEDC at the time, Integrated Energy Distribution and Marketing Company, declared force majeure and returned the Disco to the Federal Ministry of Power. Integrated Energy had acquired 60 per cent equity in the YEDC after paying $146.8m, but declared a force majeure in 2015, citing insecurity in the North-East region of the country where the company covered. Following this, the company was repossessed by the Federal Government, but in July 2021 the BPE announced that it had resold the company to a new investor, Quest Electricity Nigeria Limited. This came as Akamnonu stated that the Discos would have to improve on their performance in order to stay afloat, service their various obligations and prevent being taken over. He said, “It is not in doubt, for even the blind can feel their poor performance. It is everywhere. Sometimes you hear that they cannot evacuate energy that is generated. And what are the causes? “Their distribution lines and networks are in a very poor state with high levels of faults making it difficult for them to evacuate to consumers.” The power expert noted that another concern had to do with metering, stressing that the country’s metering gap was so wide and that because of this, the rate of tariff collection had remained poor. “The naira they collect per unit of energy sold is much lower than what is required,” Akamnonu stated. He added, “When you bill people on estimation, you can either charge them more or less. But from our study, most Discos don’t make the required earnings from estimation. “People cry out that estimation is high. Yes, it is high for some people but not for everyone. If you come to an area where people are not metered, during the day time you will see people leaving their light on. “And this is because they are actually not paying appropriately for the energy they are consuming. So they tend to waste energy. Therefore, demand side management is better when a customer is metered.” He observed that the rate of rollout of meters was very low, adding that if a higher percentage of customers were appropriately metered, the Discos would collect more revenue and the total energy demand would reduce. “This is because if you know you are strictly paying for each unit of energy consumed, you will be more conscious about energy wastage. So there will be more energy freed for the system.” The way forward Experts described the challenges in Nigeria’s power sector as enormous and way beyond just the industry concerns posed by Discos. They stated that virtually all arms of the power business had one or more issues that required attention, though most stakeholders had focused on the Discos being the major revenue pathway into the market. To tackle the myriad challenges confronting the sector, analysts stated that various options should be tried and that this must be done effectively. The move by the National Assembly in March this year through the passage of a bill to allow states to generate, transmit and distribute electricity in areas covered by the national grid, for instance, had been described as a possible solution to the concerns in the sector. The “Bill for an Act to alter the provision of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, 1999 to allow states generate, transmit and distribute electricity in areas covered by the national grid; and for related matters,” was presented at plenary in the Upper and Lower Chambers of the National Assembly in March. About 298 members of the House of Representatives voted in support of the proposal, as only two votes were against the move. At the Senate, it was reported that 90 senators voted in support to pass the bill. In a power sector platform, industry stakeholders reacted to the bill, in recognition of the fact that the initiative was basically seeking ways to address the challenges confronting the industry. Commenting on the bill, Fadipe stated that it was a welcome development but noted that it was crucial that the legal framework that would allow states prospect in areas covered by the grid was made available. “That is the first step. By so doing, they can take their baby steps, falter, fall and stand again. Such move aligns with our professed federalist tendencies,” the Sage Consulting power expert stated. He noted that apart from security, currency, border controls, army and a few other issues, the federating units should not have any form of restriction in those services that could trigger exponential growth and development within their geography and by extension, the entire country. Fadipe said, “The benefits of allowing them to prospect and participate in areas that seem to have been covered by the current grid far outweigh the restriction that they currently suffer. “Come to think of it, who is the federal system protecting or competing with that it is reluctant to allow the entrance of the states in areas covered by the grid? With the privatisation should come the opportunity for any investor – government, group, individuals, to participate.” The Special Adviser to the President in Infrastructure, Ahmed Zakari, stated that nothing in the country’s laws today was preventing a state from supporting investments to build power plants or distribution lines or transmission infrastructure. “The solution to low infrastructure is building infrastructure, the solution to low metering is to invest in metering. Changing laws doesn’t build power lines. It takes time to reverse chronic underinvestment,” he stated. Zakari, however, added, “I always warn that policy somersault is a risk that sets one back surreptitiously. I’m all for legislative change that is geared towards encouraging investment but we complain about over regulation as well. “Do we think that 37 different regulatory bodies make sense for an installed capacity of 22 gigawatts (in view), eight megawatts daily consumption (including industrial captive). Let’s call a spade a spade. “Massive investment is needed to turn the tide. The current administration is doing that. Where there are commercial business failures, business continuity steps in (e.g. AEDC).” Also preferring solutions to the quagmire in the country’s electricity business, Akamnonu stated called for evaluation of the performances of operators in the sector since after privatisation. He said, “First and foremost, we have to tell ourselves the truth at the highest level of government. If a programme is embarked upon and it is not yielding and there are timelines for evaluation of performance, and those timelines elapse and nobody borders to evaluate, it means you don’t want honest feedback. “And if you don’t get honest feedback, you cannot make adjustments. And those adjustments are not just important, they are very imperative. There were timelines set at the time of handover for evaluation of performance. “How far have they kept to faith with those timelines for evaluation of performance? The power sector is the most critical sector of any nation. Akamnonu, who served as managing director for about 12 years in three different power distribution companies before they were privatised, however, insisted that the power sector could be revived if things were done properly. “So there are things which we had come across and we struggled to get them right. This sector can survive and the economy can benefit much more from this sector if things are done right,” he stated.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com