THE Prelate of the Methodist Church of Nigeria, Dr Samuel Uche, has promised that the church will continue to pray for the development of Lagos State. He also said the votes of the entire bishops of the church must go to the Lagos State Governor, Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu, for his second term bid. The Prelate, who spoke on behalf of the bishops, disclosed this on Tuesday during the opening session of the 39th Bishop Council held at the Methodist Church of the Trinity, on Lagos Island. He said, “You (Sanwo-Olu) are among the best in governance we currently have in Nigeria. For this reason, I urge that you be allowed to go for a second term in office so as to complete the enviable projects that you started and others that are in the pipeline. All the bishops in Lagos will mobilise our members, our votes must go to Sanwo-Olu. “Though, I am not a card-carrying member of any political party neither am I partisan, yet I value people for who they are and not their political affiliation. I believe people like you are the one we should replicate all over the world. The Bishops’ Council will pray for you and other government functionaries so that we continue to have a very progressive and development-oriented Lagos State.” In his address, Sanwo-Olu acknowledged the Methodist Church bishops for their endorsement of his administration for a second term and assured Lagos residents of the greatest good. “I humbly acknowledge and thank you for your quiet endorsement of my second term. We cannot afford to fail. We cannot afford to give excuses. We cannot afford to give reasons, untenable reasons why we cannot take our country forward. “I stand before you and I have said this over and over, with every fabric in my body, I will continue to serve the people of Lagos.” We will serve them without fear or favour, ensuring that the greatest good is for the greatest number,” he said.  All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com