Experts in the management of conditions involving the skin, hair, and nails have cautioned Nigerians against applying semen on their skin with the hope that it will help cure pimples, acne, or other skin problems, noting that those engaging in such are only wasting their time. The experts noted that those applying semen on their faces could inadvertently be exposing themselves to infections through the semen. According to the skincare experts, there is no scientific evidence to support the claim that rubbing semen on the skin or even consuming semen has any beneficial effect on the skin. The dermatologists noted that while semen contains protein, zinc, magnesium, prostaglandins, and fructose, these ingredients are in very minimal quantities to be of any real benefit. They stressed that people pushing the narrative of treating pimples and acne with semen often rely on mere anecdotal evidence without scientific evidence to prove how it helps. Semen is the reproductive fluid released from the penis during ejaculation. It contains sperm, water and some nutrients which are secreted from several male organs in the body. The experts who spoke exclusively with PUNCH HealthWise, Consultant Physician, Dermatologist and Genito-Urinary specialist, Dr. Ezeanyaeche Obumneke and Consultant Dermatologist and Venereologist, Dr. Sebastine Oiwoh, explained that those who practice sperm facials are even at the risk of getting some infections. Obumneke said applying semen on the face carries some risks, adding that the claims that applying it on the skin can treat acne, wrinkles, blemishes and other skin conditions are unfounded and false. She said, “Applying semen on the face carries some risks, the person may develop allergic contact dermatitis, remember that the semen contains some constituents like enzymes, mineral amongst others. “This can manifest as, itching, redness, swelling, urticaria and anaphylaxis. “Also there is the risk of transmission of Sexually Transmitted Infection to the person that applied the semen. The individual can develop sexually transmitted infections especially when the semen comes in contact with mucous membranes on the face such as the eyes, and mouth. “Thers is also the risk of STI’s like chlamydia trachomatis, Neisseria gonorrhoea amongst others.” Obumneke also stated that individuals engaging in the use of semen for facials should do a proper STI check-up on the person giving them the semen before using it on their skin.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com