The Edo State Governor, Godwin Obaseki, has been commended for prioritizing the welfare of civil and public servants as well as pensioners in the state by ensuring the review of their welfare package to meet existing realities. Commending the governor, a pro-development group, Esan Agenda, specifically hailed Obaseki for reviewing the state’s minimum wage to N40,000 and approving the immediate payment of the harmonized pension. The group in a statement by its convener, Akhere Obozele, said the governor has continued to prudently deploy the state’s resources in improving the lives of Edo people and engendering economic development. He said, “Edo workers were, again, filled with the ecstasy of delight when on May 1, 2022, the ‘Wake and See’ Governor announced the upward review of the minimum wage to N40,000 to cushion the effect of the country’s harsh economic realities on the workers. “He also approved the immediate payment of the harmonized pension from the end of this month. Edo is today the only state in Nigeria paying above the federal government’s approved N30,000 minimum wage despite the little resources that accrue to the state. “This is in addition to other efforts to improve the welfare of workers in the state, including the upward review of rates for Duty Tour Allowance and capacity building as well as in-service training being delivered through the John Odigie Oyegun Training Academy.” Obozele further noted, “The governor has embarked on projects to see that workers in Edo State are provided with the right environment and tools to deliver optimal services to the people, including the reconstruction of office buildings such as the Blocks C & D of the Secretariat Complex. The governor has also pursued other reforms that have made the state’s workforce globally competitive. “He has continued to prioritize the welfare of public and civil servants, deploying resources to improve the livelihoods of the people and making sacrifices to ensure that workers can live a better life.
“What else could Edo workers ever desire?” the convener queried. “We want to commend and assure him of unalloyed support in realizing his vision of achieving a prosperous Edo that all citizens would be proud to be associated with. We are proud to have him as a governor and will continue to pray and support him,” he reassured. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com