The Special Adviser to Osun state governor on Civic Engagement, Olatunbosun Oyintiloye, has expressed concern over the non-collection of Permanent Voters Cards by many electorates. He then charged all those registered to approach the Independent National Electoral Commission, collect their PVCs, and vote for Governor Adegboyega Oyetola in the July 16 scheduled governorship poll. Oyintiloye spoke in Osogbo at the N5 million fundraising ceremony to construct a state secretariat for the Osun chapter of the Blacksmith, Welders, Iron Benders & Metal Technician Association of Nigeria. A statement by Oyintiloye, who represented the governor at the event, titled: ‘Osun 2022: Opposition can’t stop my re-election, says Oyetola,’ obtained in Osogbo on Sunday noted that the governor’s aide maintained that the administration had done well with the limited resources available to it since coming on board. He charged members of the association to support Oyetola’s re-election and ensure the continuation of the present administration. “Despite paucity of funds, Oyetola has delivered his campaign promises. Opposition parties cannot in any way stop his re-election on July 16. This administration would continue to provide an enabling environment for small-scale businesses to thrive. “Since inception, his administration has embarked on infrastructural development, providing soft loans for small businesses, ensuring adequate security, and coming up with tax-friendly policies for business owners. “Do not allow those who lack adequate knowledge of good governance to deceive them. We urge you to get your Permanent Voter Cards (PVC) and use the cards to support Oyetola in the coming election. “The Independent National Electoral Commission report that the rate of collection of PVC by registered voters in the state has been low is not encouraging,” Oyintiloye said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com