The Lagos State Police Command has arraigned four suspects in a case involving a travel agent, Osuji Onyedikanne, and an ex-athlete, Gladys Stephen. Onyedikanne had accused Stephen of using her company, Golden Knights International Sports Limited, to defraud her of N9.5m. She claimed that Stephen promised foreign football trials for her clients, adding that despite paying, none of her clients travelled out of the country. The businesswoman further alleged that some suspects arrested by the police were released without any refund made to her. The Olympian’s lawyer, Emeka Nwosu, while denying the allegations, said N5.2m was collected from Onyedikanne as a loan. The police spokesperson, Benjamin Hundeyin, told PUNCH Metro that the suspects were arraigned before an Ogba Magistrate’s Court on Wednesday. He said, “We charged the case to court today (Wednesday) and everyone showed up except her (Onyedikanne). She was called, but she didn’t take our calls. A text message was, however, sent to her line.” Hundeyin noted that the matter was adjourned till May 27. He said it was impossible for the police to compromise the case, adding that the state Commissioner of Police and an Assistant Inspector General of Police were aware of it. Meanwhile, a civil society organisation, Rule of Law and Accountability Advocacy Centre, has asked the Inspector-General of Police, Usman Baba, to transfer the case to the Force Criminal Investigation Department Annex, Alagbon. The Executive Director of the group, Okechukwu Nwanguma, accused the Lagos State Police Command of doing the biddings of the suspects. Nwanguma said, “We have taken up the matter and we have written a petition to the IG requesting him to direct the AIG, FCID Annex, Alagbon, to take over investigation from the SIB, Lagos State Police Command. “There are indications that SIB investigators have compromised and are working based on the dictates of the suspects and under the influence of a faceless ‘oga’ who is apparently in cahoots with the suspects and interfering with investigations. The complainant has no hope of obtaining justice. “Let them refund the money they obtained from her. This is  clear fraud because they made false claims and tendered fictitious documents to convince the woman to part with her money on the understanding that they were doing legitimate business.” Stephen, while reacting to an earlier report by our correspondent, accused Onyedikanne of peddling falsehood against her. She said, “First of all, everything written there is false; I don’t want to get into details. I don’t even know anything about all this N40m that was shared or something. “I suffered for this country for 25 good years, laboured, sweated and ran for Nigeria for 25 years. I didn’t stain the name; I took this country to very high esteem.” The ex-athlete noted that her company was registered in Spain and Nigeria, adding that it had never been involved in a fraud.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com