A presidential aspirant under the All Progressive Congress, Bola Tinubu has stated that qualifying to be president of Nigeria doesn’t require strength but intelligence and smartness to overcome the numerous problems bedevilling the country. Tinubu stated this when he met with delegates of the APC ahead of the party primaries in Minna on Friday. He said, “A President’s job is not to climb mountains, wrestle or carry concrete. It is to think and perform with his brain. “We are not looking for WWE wrestling fighter. We are looking for a thinker to provide security for us. “We are looking for a doer who will look at economic opportunities and turn it around to prosperity.” He also stated that he knows what he is contesting for and what is required to become a president in a country like Nigeria, adding that he has a track record of transforming Lagos state which he intends to replicate in Nigeria. “I know the road to prosperity, safety, clean environment, development of our nation and infrastructure because I have done it all in Lagos state and I can do it again,” the former Lagos State governor said. He urged delegates to choose someone who has made other people who they are in Nigeria. “Where is their track records? How many Councillors, local government Chairmen and chairperson, members of house of Assemblies, House of Representatives or Senators have they produced? I have produced them,” Tinubu boasted. He also wondered why there were many people contesting for the presidential ticket of the APC adding that he wonders where they are running to. Tinubu said, “Too many people running, running, running where are they running to? Some of them are running to sokoto, some to Suleja while some are running to Kontagora but am running for the Presidency of Nigeria.I don’t know where the others are running to.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com