The Founder of Aderoju Ayoade Adekanmbi Foundation, Dr Adejoke Akinseye, has said Oyo State Governor, Seyi Makinde, deserves a second term in office. She emphasised that Makinde had brought critical development to the state and therefore deserved to be elected for a second term. Akinseye, who is a United Kingdom trained management consultant, stated this in a statement where she announced her readiness to represent the Ibadan North East / South East federal constituency at the House of Representatives in 2023. She said: “Members of my constituency called on me to represent them at the House of Representatives for Ibadan North East/South East Federal Constituency in the next political dispensation. “Though, I have been involved in empowering the people before now. I have been entrenched in my community for 17 years. With all of these, I see myself as the most qualified for the assignment. “But most importantly, Governor Seyi Makinde deserves a second term because of his laudable achievements and track records in education, security, agriculture, and infrastructural development among others. “I am charging the electorate to rally support for the governor to achieve a second term in office, the governor has done well.” She also called for women’s empowerment, saying youths should embrace agriculture. “Women empowerment is key. Let me tell you that women are very intelligent, but they have been sidetracked for a long time. “Some of them have potential in so many areas of business and all that. It is time we empower them, and it is time they come out so that their voices can be heard. They also need to go out and get their PVC to vote for their chosen candidate. Youths should embrace agriculture, I will bring on board good investors in agriculture.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com