Vice President Yemi Osinbajo and presidential hopeful of the All Progressives Congress has said the party was poised to take over the Rivers State Government House, as well as retain power at the centre after the 2023 general election. Osinbajo stated this while addressing APC delegates and party stakeholders in Port Harcourt, Rivers State capital on Thursday. He commended the party in Rivers for being strong and united despite being in the opposition, pointing out that it was not easy to survive as an opposition party. “There is nowhere in the country that we are not proud of the APC here in Rivers State. Every member of our party is very proud of the APC in Rivets State. “The simple reason is that those of us who have been in opposition long enough knows what it is to be a party in opposition. We in Lagos where in opposition for 16 years, so, we know what it is. We know how you can be oppressed when you’re in opposition and how difficult it is to survive. “So, that you’re vibrant and able to come together in this large number, that you have a vision, that you know where you’re headed and you have very able executive is something that we ought to be very proud of. And we ate extremely proud of you here. “And I am sure that that will be rewarded in due course. If we have a better argument, if we are better organized, if we have a better vision, ultimately we will win. And I am very confident that the APC is poised to win, and I am sure that the APC will win in this state (Rivers) and the country at large,” the Vice President stated. While making reference to the immediate past Minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi, who hails from Rivers State, Osinbajo said he enjoys an excellent working relationship with the latter, including outside official duties. He said he and Amaechi, also a presidential hopeful, has close family ties, saying ‘My son and his son are friends’, among others, noting that of all those aspiring to succeed the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (rted), in the APC, only person will emerge and others must be ready to rally their support. “We are aspirants today, but only person will emerge, not two. And we must be prepared to work with that person,” Vice President Osinbajo stated. Meanwhile, Osinbajo opened his presidential campaign office in Port Harcourt on Thursday, which he dedicated to God, saying a new day has come for Nigeria The Vice President who earlier branched off at the secretariat of the State Council of the Rivers State Council of Rational Rulers for a session said the party must neither be funded by a governor nor individuals in the state, or with public funds. He said members of the party can contribute meaningfully so that every one of them can be proud to own the party. Speaking with newsmen after an interactive session with party delegates, he said the ruling party has the capacity to resolve any issue confronting it anywhere in the country. “We discuss a wide range of issues, especially issues that concern our country and the development of our country. We are also completely at one on the ideas that the party is united. So everything that needs to be done is being done to ensure the unity of the party. “The APC is not just the ruling party, but the party that has the greatest potential to do the best for this country. So, every little problem that we have, we have the capacity to resolve all of those conflicts and problems,” Osinbajo stated. Earlier, the state chairman of the party, Emeka Beke welcomed the vice presdient and said there was only APC in the state, assuring that the party was ready to win the state come 2023. Beke added, “The Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike is afraid because he knows the APC will win the 2023 elections in the state. “There is only one APC here in Rivers State. We are united under the leadership of Rt, Hon. Rotimi Amaechi, We have done our congresses and we are prepared for all the elections,” the state APC chairman stated, even as he wished VP Osinbajo the best in his presidential aspirations. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com