Governor Dapo Abiodun of Ogun State, on Tuesday, inaugurated the 3km Panseke-Adigbe-Opako Road within the Abeokuta metropolis, reportedly abandoned by the immediate past administration in the state. In a statement, the Chief Press Secretary to the Governor, Kunle Somorin, said the governor completed the road that traverses Abeokuta South, Obafemi-Owode, and Ewekoro, which was abandoned by the immediate past administration in the state. Our correspondent gathered that former governor, Senator Ibikunle Amosun, started the project but could not complete it before the expiration of his tenure. Somorin said Abiodun, who spoke at the inauguration held at the popular Panseke Junction, described the event as symbolic. Somorin added that the governor described the project as a fulfilment of his administration’s promise to the state’s people. He quoted Abiodun as saying, “This road has a history. The immediate past administration started it in December 2018. That makes it one of the inherited projects.” “At the inception of our administration, and, in our usual methodical, strategic and inclusive approach, we inaugurated a committee to consider the status and viability of these inherited projects. “Then, I promised the good people of Ogun State that we will complete all inherited projects that directly bear on our dear state’s development. Here we are! We are fulfilling our promises. “Since May 29, 2019, our dear state has witnessed a new vista in infrastructural development. We thank God that we are here gathered today not only to commission this road but to fulfil the promise made. This shows that our words are our bond with the people of Ogun State.” Abiodun explained that the 3km road is particularly of economic importance. It traverses three local government areas and provides a viable bye pass to the busy Ita-Oshin-Lafenwa end of the Abeokuta-Ifo-Sango-Lagos expressway through Obada Oko. He added that “on the micro-level, this road is an added infrastructure and adds to the aesthetics of this area. It has a reinforced concrete median, a carriage width of 8m in each direction, and a reinforced concrete drain and walkway. “More than that, its benefits on the macro level are far greater. It is no doubt an added advantage to the successful implementation of our Transport Master Plan, especially the road transportation aspect of our multi-modal transport agenda.” One of the aides of Amosun, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, said the former governor was not interested in arguing with the present government over anything. “So far, he has done the project he claimed Amosun abandoned, no problem. We have no comment on it,” he said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com