The All Progressives Congress chieftains in Ovia South West and Ovia North East area of Edo State have endorsed the lawmaker representing Ovia Federal Constituency in the House of Representative, Dennis Idahosa, for a second term. The APC chairmen in Ovia South West and Ovia North East, Emmanuel Ogbomo and Oscar Aghedo respectively, and other party leaders endorsed the lawmaker after he declared his intention at Iguobazuwa to return to the Green Chamber to represent the Ovia Federal Constituency. The party chairmen commended the lawmaker for his constant interaction with members of his constituents since he assumed office in 2019. The chairmen both noted that the bottom-top approach that the lawmaker adopted in tackling challenges in the area has helped changed the menace of under-representation the people have suffered in time past. They further noted that Idahosa has within a short time attracted unprecedented government presence to the area and also provided empowerment opportunities to the people. Ogbomo said: “Not that we have not had representatives before, but you have simply made the difference with your approach in dealing with decades of abandonment we have suffered. “While we commend you for all the projects and many more you plan to do, I must join force with the people in declaring total support for your reelection,” Ogbomo stated. On his part, Aghedo said history would not be kind to them if they fail to align themselves with the wishes of the people. He said: “We are not just speaking as party members, but aligning ourselves to what the people have resolved to do, that is, to send you back to Abuja.” Idahosa who used the opportunity to reel out his achievements said he has good stories to tell when the campaign kicks off. Idahosa said: “As at the last count, we have 71 projects spread across the 23 wards that make up the constituency, which includes the construction of 21 schools, amongst others. “I have 14 motions and 4 bills to my credit. These motions and bills are impactful ones that add value to our very existence as a people. I really want to appreciate the good people of Ovia for their love, support, and prayers,” he added. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com