The Electoral Committee for All Progressives Congress governorship primary in Lagos State has revealed that only the state Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, was cleared to participate. The APC special state congress to elect the party’s candidate for the 2023 governorship election held on Thursday. The Chairman of the five-man electoral committee, Alhaji Adamu Yuguda, stated this to newsmen while reacting to allegations that the two other aspirants in the race were prevented from attending the primary election. Yuguda said: “We are aware that three aspirants bought forms for Lagos state. Three accredited for the screening. One was cleared, and two were not cleared. “So, as we speak, the other two aspirants have not been cleared by the screening committee and by the appeal committee. “We are only attending to those that have been cleared, the aspirant that has been cleared by the two committees.” The News Agency of Nigeria reports that the other two aspirants for the topmost seat in Lagos state that were not cleared are a former commissioner, Wale Oluwo, and a former Permanent Secretary, Abdul-Ahmed Mustapha. Assessing the exercise, Yuguda said that since Lagos APC was one family, it had helped in the orderliness and peaceful conduct of delegates and leaders of the party in the state. “The exercise is transparent and going on well. Everything is taking place the way we expect it to be,” Yuguda, a former deputy governor of Borno said. He reiterated that Lagos APC had 1,225 delegates and 1,198 had been accredited. According to him, ad hoc delegates from two local government areas have voted already as of 2:44 p.m. and the committee is moving to the third local government area. The APC governorship special congress is holding at the Mobolaji Johnson Arena, formerly known as Onikan Stadium, on Lagos Island on Thursday. However, the downpour in the state has impeded the progress of the exercise at the time of filing this report.
Only the incumbent, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, was on the ground at the venue. The event is being conducted under heavy security presence and the watch of officials of the Independent National Electoral Commission. NAN