Imo State Governor, Hope Uzodimma, has described as a huge loss the death of former Senator, Arthur Nzeribe. Nzeribe was said to have died on Thursday at 83. The governor, in a statement issued on Sunday by his Chief Press Secretary, Oguwike Nwachuku, said the nation would miss the deceased’s experience. “Governor Hope Uzodimma of Imo State has said that the death of Senator Arthur Nzeribe is a big loss to the people of Imo State in particular and Nigeria in general,” the statement read in part. The family had earlier confirmed the death of the politician in a statement titled, ‘Our mighty Iroko has fallen: Senator Chief Francis is dead.’ The statement was signed by Ojiabu Nzeribe, Anthony Nzeribe, and Oliver Nzeribe on behalf of the Nzeribe Royal Family. It read, “Umudei Royal Village of Oguta in the Oguta Local Government Area of Imo State, in total submission to the will of God Almighty and in appreciation of a remarkably worthy life hereby announces the death of our son, cousin, uncle, husband, father, and grandfather, Distinguished Senator, Chief Francis Arthur Uzoma Nzeribe (Ogbuagu, Oshiji, Damarae Oyirrba of Oguta) on the 5th day of May 2022 at the age of 83. “While we are pained by this loss, we are proud of this African legend who distinguished himself in various fields including sports, international business, and politics and gave the Nzeribe brand worldwide acclaim. “The family has immediately commenced the necessary traditional consultations and will in due course release a programme for funeral rites. “We appeal to the public to respect the privacy of the family and the solemnity of this event to enable us to grieve in peace.” Nzeribe represented Imo Orlu constituency at the Senate from May 1999 to May 2007 on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com