Ex-President Goodluck Jonathan’s former aide, Reno Omokri, has said his former principal won’t join the 2023 presidential race secretly. Omokri said this while reacting to the purchase of the N100 million Nomination and Expression of Interest forms of the APC for his former principal by some groups. The former president had, however, said the forms were bought without his consent. Omokri posted, “Jonathan has nothing to do with the reported purchase of some forms. He has an official spokesman and his own staff. He is a man of honour and will not do anything surreptitiously. The media and the public should be guided. “I could have denied this hours ago, but I deliberately declined in order to watch his enemies and mine dance deliriously at the thought that they’d demystified @GEJonathan. There is no Nigerian alive that has the national and international credibility that HE GEJ has.” Jonathan had rejected the forms bought for him to contest the 2023 presidential election by nomadic Fulani pastoralists and Almajiri communities. Jonathan’s Media Adviser, Mr Ikechukwu Eze, in a statement on Monday, said it was an insult for the community to buy the forms for him without his consent. The statement was in reaction to the earlier purchase of the forms for the former president to contest the party’s ticket with other aspirants for the 2023 presidential election. “It has come to our notice that a group has purportedly purchased Presidential Expression of Interest and Nomination forms of the APC in the name of former President Dr Goodluck Ebele Jonathan. “We wish to categorically state that Dr Jonathan was not aware of this bid and did not authorise it. “We want to state that if the former president wanted to contest an election, he would make his intentions clear to the public and will not enter through the back door,” Eze said. He, however, expressed appreciation for the overwhelming request by a cross-section of Nigerians for Jonathan to make himself available for the 2023 presidential election. Eze stressed that the former president had not in any way, committed himself to the request. “Buying a presidential aspiration form in the name Dr Jonathan without his consent, knowing the position he had held in this country, is considered an insult to his person. “The general public is therefore advised to disregard it,” Eze maintained. Malam Ibrahim Abdullahi, leader of the nomadic Fulani pastoralists and Almajiri communities, had earlier told newsmen after picking the forms that Jonathan should be re-elected to enable him to complete what he began. “My name is Ibrahim Abdullahi, I represent two of the most vulnerable communities in our country, the nomadic pastoralists and the almajiri communities. “We have decided to purchase this form for our former president, Dr Goodluck Ebele Jonathan, to come back and rule this country and continue with the good work he started,” he said. Among other things, he said Jonathan was the first president since the country gained independence in 1960 that found it expedient, through his magnanimity, to remember the Almajiri community. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com