The President, Risk Management Association of Nigeria), Mr Ezekiel Oseni, has called for more vigilance by corporate bodies and individuals to intensify cyber security risk management because of heightened emergence of cyber risk. A statement said Oseni spoke while delivering his opening remarks at the 2022 membership induction where 107 members were inducted into RIMAN as senior associate members and associate members. He noted that as the business world continued to evolve, it was important for risk managers and organisations to evolve with the emergence of dramatic shifts in the landscape of risks faced by businesses. Speaking on the theme of the event tagged ‘Building the competency for cybersecurity risk management in an organisation’, he said, “In today’s computerised world, new risks emerge every hour of every day. Cybercrime is becoming big business and cyber risk is a focus of organisations and governments globally. “The world will continue to experience increasing data breaches in the face of emerging technologies, the dawning of 4.0 industrial revolution and increasing unemployment rates among the youths worldwide. “Threats such as ransomware, targeted phishing attacks and Advanced Persistent Threats have become prevalent already, demanding organisations to take proactive steps to secure their critical information assets including customer information that are accessible from cyberspace. “Cybersecurity risk is considered a significant business risk and should be placed at the same level as compliance, operational, financial and reputational risks. Therefore, policy makers, corporate bodies, and individuals must learn the importance of implementing excellent cyber security risk management.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com