A newly wed farmer, Biodun Fakoro, has been hacked to death by unidentified gunmen in a farm at Egbe in Yagba West Local Government Area in Kogi State. The incident was said to have happened on Monday afternoon at a farm in the suburb of the town. Eye witnesses told our correspondent that late Abiodun was declared missing earlier but after a frantic search, his dead body was found by the security operatives and village vigilante. According to the report from the area, Biodun’ s lifeless body was seen with different cuts and tied to a tree along the road leading to his farm. “His assailants killed him by inflicting a lot of cuts on him and tied his lifeless body to a nearby tree in the farm”, said a local from Egbe. Late Biodun, who was said to have married last month to his heartthrob, was said to be a popular mechanic in Egbe town. His killing was followed by a protest by the residents who reportedly descended on herdsmen living in the environment, leading to destruction of property, including burning of their houses and motorcycles. It was gathered that the security operatives, including soldiers, were drafted to the areas on Monday to restore laws and orders. Reports from the area further stated that gunshots rented the air on Tuesday night, including burning of houses, as residents were asked to stay indoors to avoid stray bullets. When contacted , the Kogi state command of Police Public Relation Officer, SP William Aya confirmed the incident but said one person was declared missing in the previous day and his dead body was later found along a farm parth , thus igniting reprisal attack from the residents on perceived assailants. “His decomposing body was found in the farm on Monday afternoon. Investigation is in progress to unravel his killers”, he said. Aya stated that the state commissioner of police, Edward Egbuka has drafted a crack team of security operatives to the place to restore normalcy and apprehend the culprits behind the criminal act. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com