Following the increasing effect of climate change and the level of unemployment in the country, no fewer than 30 beneficiaries have been trained by the National Directorate of Employment on Enviropreneurship. Speaking during the training, the Director-General of NDE, Abubakar Fikpo, said the programme was under the Special Public Works Department and was geared towards solving environmental problems and reducing the rate of joblessness. He revealed that the training would last for three months, with each participant earning N10,000 per month to enable them to visit waste sites to collect materials for recycling. Some of the sector’s participants were trained in the use of animal horns to create ornaments and the conversion of sawdust to smokeless firewood Fikpo, who was represented by the acting Gombe State Coordinator, Jediel Stephen, said the programme would increase the socio-economic activities, generate employment opportunities, encourage wealth creation and impact poverty reduction efforts in the state. He said, “Enviropreneurship development is a foremost entrepreneurial orientation that focuses on environmental problems and accommodates societal needs while at the same time meeting the economic objective of the organisation since it has to do with doing business. “An entrepreneur sees the world as a place full of resources  and can also nurture a culture of lifecycle-based thinking on how to turn wastes to valuables within the rules and norms of the society and also in cognizance of regulatory instruments.” He further urged the government to partner with the directorate in order to scale the training across the entire 11 local government areas with more beneficiaries. Also speaking, Director Special Public Works, Abuja Directorate, Roseline Olaomi, who was represented by Sa’id Salau, encouraged participants to utilise the opportunity provided by the Federal Government. Olaomi also urged them to ensure they imbibed the rudiments of the training in order to earn their living.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com