Recent experiences in the education sector have raised a ‘code-red’ alarm, but only a number of people have been concerned about insecurity, particularly in the educational sector. The plague of horror is far from the reality of fun, play and careless freedom that most of us enjoyed as children in primary schools. Now, pupils’ reality is different: fear of rape, bullying, harassment, intimidation, etc plagues our schools and I fear it is going to get worse if there are no collaborative efforts to stem the tide. The trail of students caught in episodes of insecurity, lack of proper monitoring system, failed response to cries for help and inability to call for help in times of emergency, are on the rise in our educational sector. Sadly, these things are not limited to the dreams of the night, they are the reality that many children face on a daily basis. Can learning still be effective in a place of fear and horror? Can we produce Nigeria’s tomorrow’s leaders today in an environment plagued with intimidation, violence, death, and a cry for help met with inaction and indifference? In the wake of technology giants in the fintech, logistics, security, tele medics, telematics and cyberspace in Nigeria, providing solutions to Africa’s toughest and biggest problems by sheer brilliance and hard work, can there be collaborative efforts that can solve the impending doom in our educational sector by these great minds? For instance, in the tracking and IOT space, top security gadgets like mini-cameras, spy pen and SOS wearable devices, wearable trackers, buzzer systems can be integrated and effectively deployed in school environments, accompanied by earnest usage, overseen by well trained and skilled personnel to monitor these systems; set up rules of engagement for each school and child (defined parameters that if violated would trigger an alarm and violators will be detected), identify signals of misdemeanour and effective response to emergency situations will guarantee the safety of many children and prevent unhealthy situations. Already, this is being offered at Spytrac Telematics, a firm which believes that “if we can track it, we can prevent it” This should sink into the minds of owners and administrators in the educational system, parents and facilitators as well. Let the happenings in the educational sector be a rallying call for the deployment of tech-security integrated solutions,  across schools in Nigeria. These solutions may be expensive for some schools to deploy and manage independently, however, it becomes important when we ponder the pain of losing a child to situations that could have been prevented; the shame of incompetence tag on school administrators and the government when such incidents happen; the risk of schools shutting down and the hurt it causes to the general public when we lose a child. Through effective collaboration with tech giants, finance houses and FMCGs, funding can be provided to subsidise the implementation of these security infrastructures for schools, while the school administration and Parent Teachers Forum is made to oversee the maintenance and continuous usage of these services in partnership with their providers. If subsidy is ever to be argued for, I believe the educational sector is in great need of it, and having our tech firms and others fund and collaborate in this effort of improving security in our schools will only speak greatly to their cause as companies committed to improving lives here in Nigeria. With this in place, through effective collaboration and accountability, we will swiftly bring an end to this cycle of shame that has besieged the educational sector. To solve the impending deaths in our educational sector – the death of character, death of talent, death of will and emotions, loss of great minds to complacency and indifference, all hands must be on deck. Both Tech and FMCG firms can facilitate an Educational Security Project through funding and collaboration in the deployment of tech security infrastructure in schools. ‘Tech’ is today’s trend for a sustainable future. Let’s use and partner with tech to save our nation’s leaders of the future today,  so we all can have a better future for ourselves and our businesses. Ijeoma Chukwu writes from Lagos via ijeoma.chukwu@spytrac.ng  All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com