Hypertension is classified as the world’s leading cause of death, killing more than 10 million people every year, more than all infectious diseases combined. The World Health organisation defines blood pressure as the force exerted by circulating blood against the walls of the body’s arteries, the major blood vessels in the body, and hypertension is when blood pressure is too high. According to WHO, an estimated 1.28 billion adults aged 30-79 years worldwide have hypertension, most (two-thirds) living in low- and middle-income countries. Less than half of adults (42 per cent) with hypertension are diagnosed and treated. Approximately 1 in 5 adults (21 per cent) with hypertension have it under control. The data indicated that the prevalence of hypertension varies across regions and country income groups, noting that the WHO African Region has the highest prevalence of hypertension (27 per cent). The number of adults with hypertension increased from 594 million in 1975 to 1.13 billion in 2015, with the increase seen largely in low- and middle-income countries. This increase is due mainly due to a rise in hypertension risk factors in the populations. One of the global targets for non-communicable diseases by WHO is to reduce the prevalence of hypertension by 33 per cent between 2010 and 2030. But the cost and availability of drugs might impede achieving the target. On May 12, 2022, African Media Agency released a report by Resolve to Save Lives and Médecins Sans Frontières, stating that excessive and inequitable hypertension medication pricing hinders efforts to control high blood pressure in low- and middle-income countries. It stated that three-quarters of people with high blood pressure live in LMICs and fewer than one in 10 people with hypertension in LMICs were effectively treated. It further stated that increasing access to affordable, safe, and essential hypertension medicines could save millions of lives. The President and CEO of Resolve to Save Lives, Dr Tom Frieden said, “Where you live should not determine your ability to control your blood pressure, avoid a preventable heart attack or stroke, and live a longer, healthier life. “Exorbitant drug pricing is forcing many people in lower- and middle-income countries to choose between food, shelter or life-saving medication. No one should have to make this choice. Leaders from governments, civil society, and the pharmaceutical industry must make these medicines more affordable and accessible to the millions of people living with high blood pressure.’’ The two groups took estimates of the cost-based generic prices of the most common hypertension medications and compared them with the costs of same drugs in five large LMICs: Brazil, Lebanon, Nigeria, the Philippines, and South Africa. The report found that the market prices in the five LMICs were up to 41 times higher than the estimated cost-based generic prices. Based on the findings, RTSL and MSF recommend that ministries of health make essential hypertension medicines universally available and more affordable. They also called for countries to update their national EMLs and standard hypertension treatment guidance to include single-pill combination formulations of essential hypertension medicines, and multiple drugs at low or moderate doses to improve patient adherence to medicines and reduce costs for pharmaceutical management available as generic formulations. They urged pharmaceutical manufacturers to register WHO-recommended hypertension drugs in LMICs to expand access to medications with safe, high efficacy, and comply with quality standards. In his comment on the issue, a cardiologist at the Olabisi Onabanjo University, Ago-Iwoye, Ogun State, Prof Oluranti Familoni, described hypertension as a silent killer and the commonest cause of cardiovascular diseases such as stroke, kidney, and heart failure. He added that four out of 10 people in urban areas suffer from hypertension and about 50 per cent of people with hypertension were unaware of the condition because the first symptom might be the last as they could slump and die suddenly. On the issue of accessibility of antihypertensive medications, Familoni, said antihypertensive drugs, as well as other drugs, could be made easily accessible and affordable by ensuring local production of generic drugs. He stated that the supply chain and foreign exchange rate impacted access and availability of these drugs to patients. He said, “The pharmaceutical industry in Nigeria is growing. The drugs are being compounded and formulated locally. But most multinationals still import drugs because the governance and labour laws are affecting them. Also, the exchange rate hampers the availability of the drugs and ultimately affects the supply chain.” He said importation affects availability and proliferates fake drugs and some generics might not be as good as the original in their bioavailability. According to him, such drugs do not have the ability to effectively treat the condition because they might not contain sufficient quantities of its active ingredient or be completely fake. Familoni added, “The WHO and other guidelines across the world are perching towards single-pill formulation because it is cheaper and affords patients taking less number of drugs which increases compliance and decreases the rate of complications.’’ He urged the government to improve the economy and give tax-free licences to pharmaceutical companies for some years and assist them in importing raw materials to reduce cost and increase accessibility of the medicines. The cardiologist said, “Hypertension is just like car brakes. It is only controlled and not cured so if there is no constant maintenance or follow-up then there will be consequences. But with medications and lifestyle modifications then one can live for years.’’ He advised those above 40 to constantly check their blood pressure level especially those with a family history of the disease, adding that lifestyle modification which includes weight reduction, diet and exercise should be explored in managing the condition. He further counselled patients with hypertension to desist from smoking, alcohol, cholesterol, and salt intake and exercise regularly to improve blood supply to the brain and the heart and aid weight loss. Also, a Professor of Pharmacology at the University of Benin, Edo State, Eric Omogbai, said that the availability of antihypertensive drugs was a problem because of lack of local drug production, and exorbitant importation price. He said, “The best way to get cheap drugs is local production of generic drugs. That is why countries such as India produce at low cost because the companies that hold patents for the drugs will no longer do so after 20 years. So, any drug company that is functional can reproduce them without paying loyalty to the original company.’’ He linked the situation to the government’s failure to provide an enabling environment for the manufacture of generic drugs like other essential commodities. He added that fake drugs and the nation’s health system were affecting the control of the conditions. Omogbai said, “Every citizen should have health insurance that subsidises the cost of drugs for the patients. Only a few workers benefit from the National Health Insurance Scheme expected to be available to all citizens at different levels.’’ He recommended that a drug manufacturing system should be established to produce generic drugs for the treatment of hypertension. The lecturer noted that failure to do so would lead to continual purchase of fake drugs and an increase in exposure to cardiovascular diseases resulting from hypertension. The expert stated that single-pill combinations were cheaper and increased the effectiveness of the management of the disease. He said, “Two active ingredients such as amlodipine and valsartan can be combined in one drug, which will improve cardiac output, and blood volume, and as well relax the blood vessels and reduce blood pressure levels. One’s age and health history will determine the combination of drugs in a single pill that will be administered. There is a lot of benefit to this. But it is only in a good manufacturing environment that it can be achieved. Sadly, we still import these combination pills.’’ He advised drug manufacturing companies to encourage domestic and national production of drugs to provide cheaper and quality drugs and not focus on the gains in importing alone. In his contribution, a professor of Medicine at the University of Nigeria, Ituku/Ozalla campus, Enugu State, Basden Onwubere, said accessibility to antihypertensive drugs could be achieved when the NHIS becomes more effective and more people begin to benefit from it. He stated that the government had started working towards access to NHIS, adding that more needed to be done to reach the villages. An article published in the National library of medicine titled, “Current prevalence pattern of hypertension in Nigeria: A systematic review,’’ stated that the prevalence of hypertension was high among the Nigerian population, suggesting appropriate interventions to reduce the burden of hypertension, especially at the Primary Health Care centres regarded as the first point of call for over 55 per cent. Besides, the Executive Director, Nigerian Heart Foundation, Dr Kingsley Akinroye, said that the foundation was canvassing tax rebates for companies manufacturing antihypertensive products. Akinroye stated that such tax funds would be used to import raw materials free, noting that the change in governance had affected the success of the campaign. He cited a partnership with an international drug manufacturer some years ago where drugs were sold at a 50 per cent rebate cheaper than the ones imported. He said, “Basic health care provision fund is now available. The state agency works with PHC to provide access to free care and cardiovascular diseases have recently been added to the list.’’ He also urged governors in each of the states to ensure payment of counterpart funds for infectious and non-communicable diseases so that basic drugs would be given at no cost.    ,, Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com