The World Bank has said that the war in Ukraine has dealt a major shock to commodity markets, altering global patterns of trade, production, and consumption in ways that will keep prices at historically high levels through the end of 2024. The World Bank said this in its latest Commodity Markets Outlook report. According to a new report by the Washington-based bank titled, “Food and energy price shocks from Ukraine war could last for years,” the increase in energy prices over the past two years had been the largest since the 1973 oil crisis. Price increases for food commodities—of which Russia and Ukraine are large producers—and fertilizers, which relied on natural gas as a production input, had been the largest since 2008. “Overall, this amounts to the largest commodity shock we’ve experienced since the 1970s. As was the case then, the shock is being aggravated by a surge in restrictions in the trade of food, fuel and fertilizers,” said the World Bank’s Vice President for Equitable Growth, Finance, and Institutions, Indemit Gill “These developments have started to raise the spectre of stagflation. Policymakers should take every opportunity to increase economic growth at home and avoid actions that will bring harm to the global economy.” According to the report, energy prices were expected to rise more than 50 per cent in 2022 before easing in 2023 and 2024. Non-energy prices, including agriculture and metals, are projected to increase almost 20 per cent in 2022 and will also moderate in the following years. Nevertheless, commodity prices are expected to remain well above the most recent five-year average. In the event of a prolonged war or additional sanctions on Russia, prices could be even higher and more volatile than currently projected. Because of war-related trade and production disruptions, the World Bank predicts the price of Brent crude oil at an average of $100 a barrel in 2022, its highest level since 2013 and an increase of more than 40 per cent compared to 2021. Prices are expected to moderate to $92 in 2023—well above the five-year average of $60 a barrel. Natural gas prices (European) are expected to be twice as high in 2022 as they were in 2021, while coal prices are expected to be 80 per cent higher, with both prices at all-time highs. “Commodity markets are experiencing one of the largest supply shocks in decades because of the war in Ukraine,” said Director of the World Bank’s Prospects Group, Ayhan Jose, which produces the Outlook report. “The resulting increase in food and energy prices is taking a significant human and economic toll—and it will likely stall progress in reducing poverty. Higher commodity prices exacerbate already elevated inflationary pressures around the world.” The report said wheat prices were forecast to increase more than 40 per cent, reaching an all-time high in nominal terms this year. That will put pressure on developing economies that rely on wheat imports, especially from Russia and Ukraine. Metal prices are projected to increase by 16 per cent in 2022 before easing in 2023 but will remain at elevated levels. “Commodity markets are under tremendous pressure, with some commodity prices reaching all-time highs in nominal terms,” said Senior Economist in the World Bank’s Prospects Group, John Baffes. “This will have lasting knock-on effects. The sharp rise in input prices, such as energy and fertilizers, could lead to a reduction in food production particularly in developing economies. Lower input use will weigh on food production and quality, affecting food availability, rural incomes, and the livelihoods of the poor.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com