The Olubadan of Ibadan, Oba Lekan Balogun, has assured the Afenifere Renewal Group of his support in its bid to ensure that justice and fairness prevail in Yorubaland. The monarch insisted that the unity of Yoruba as a nation must not, for any reason, be compromised just as he accepted to interface with his colleague Obas in Yorubaland on any issue that would promote Yoruba interest. The Olubadan said this during the visit of the executive members of the ARG led by Wale Oshun and Chief Ayo Afolabi, the Chairman and Secretary respectively, to him at his Alarere residence on Friday. Oba Balogun said, “Whatever will jealously guard and protect the interest of the Yoruba people will attract my attention. As a freedom fighter myself, I have all through my life’s sojourn abhorred injustice, lack of fairness and equity and I cannot at this time change. So, whoever shares that attribute with me has my total support and so you have my blessings. “We all have a common purpose since our vision is about the genuine freedom of our people to live meaningful life on their God-given space without let or hindrance. I accept wholeheartedly your request to liaise with my brother Obas on your mission and by the grace of the Almighty Allah, we will reach our destination peacefully.” Oshun, in his address, said the group was concerned about the position of Yorubaland in the political calculation of the country today, describing it as worrisome. Oshun  said, “What we discovered as the North migration then has today blossomed to herdsmen invasion, leaving our land desolate because of the various vices the herdsmen are noted for. We can longer go to farms, what we were producing before like maize, cassava, soya beans among others are now being imported. We raised the alarm then that the migration of the North to the South had no any value to be added to us. “We want to send you on an errand with every sense of humility and responsibility to your colleague Obas on our mission for Yoruba to regain her past glory.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com