A presidential aspirant, Felix Osakwe, has submitted the Action Alliance’s Expression of Interest and Nomination forms, vowing that he would be Nigeria’s next president. Osakwe, who is a former presidential candidate of the Democratic Peoples Party, in the 2019 presidential election, also said he is the man to beat in the 2023 presidential contest. In the company of party faithful and supporters, Osakwe told his supporters and the party’s members that “I’m the next democratically elected President of Nigeria and would be sworn in on May 29, 2023, by God’s grace.” He stressed that “the nation needs a versatile and widely respected and exposed personality to lead the country out of the woods”, stating that “Nigeria is bedevilled by leaders who are bereft of ideas on how to lead a modern nation-state”. He said, “Security, education, massive youth empowerment and capacity building, integration and peaceful collaboration of all segments of the Nigerian society, job creation and employment through massive capacity, the Ukwani Delta State-born human developer are my major priorities. “Food sufficiency shouldn’t be a major plague in a nation with the vast arable land as Nigeria and to this. My administration will ensure Nigerians produce massively what they consume and even export to nations of the world. “The refineries will work effectively, we shall link the Nigerian gas resources with the west for massive foreign exchange and force down the dollar rate for our people to live prosperously. We shall attack the monolithic nature of our economy and diversify the same to build a strong and virile nation from the ashes of the obviously misgoverned nation. “Nigerians irrespective of who they are or where they come from will be given equal opportunities to grow and develop as we shall unlock their potential and the destiny of our nation. These are duties we owe posterity, the duty of birthing a new Nigeria in a new vision and mission that will undoubtedly catapult our motherland to a new height in the contemporary world and we cannot afford to fail.”