A political activist and former member of the House of Representatives, Dr Usman Bugaje, on Friday, picked holes in the leadership recruitment process by political parties. Bugaje stated this in Abuja after picking forms to contest the 2023 Presidency on the platform of the Peoples Redemption Party. According to him, Nigeria is going through unprecedented adversity, misery and frustration. He said that Nigeria had not been working but still remained one of the most dangerous places in the world. He said, “Simply put Nigeria is not working, but worse still it becomes one of the most dangerous places on the globe. Meanwhile, its peers are all well ahead catching up with the first world. This is clearly the culmination of the two decades of bad governance. “Governance has been defined by pilferage, wastage, prodigality and mind-boggling corruption. Our political culture has been pedestrian, defined by money and violence while caught in the web of politics of big men rather than the politics of big ideas. All these can be traced to the quality of leadership or lack of it as it were. “This is further compounded by the fact that the leadership recruitment process in the political parties is so flawed that it does not appear to have any criteria at all, much less prioritize knowledge or character. “Thus we have found ourselves on a dangerous trajectory, that is not only unsustainable but actually dangerous, because the anger and frustration it has been generating can consume the polity, as it has always done in the history of human societies. “The 2023 election offers us the opportunity to change our trajectory by electing leaders that are knowledgeable, competent and credible. “Governance in the 21st century is a corporate scientific business. Modern governance starts with a vision, which is broken down into mission, which then requires planning and monitoring and evaluation, all of which require knowledge.” Bugaje, former Special Adviser to ex-Vice President Atiku Abubakar said the PRP was built on the premise to uplift the poor and downtrodden. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com