Former Senate President and presidential aspirant of the Peoples Democratic Party, Dr. Bukola Saraki, on Thursday, said other aspirants have admitted to his ingenuity in solving Nigeria’s challenges. Saraki made this disclosure in Gombe while canvassing for the votes of PDP delegates in the coming presidential primary. He said, “Today, I am here to urge my brothers, my sisters and my leaders to support me. Let us not vote with sentiments. “If you ask all the aspirants who can make Nigeria better, who can create jobs, who can put an end to insecurity and who has the capacity, even all the aspirants will tell you Saraki is very intelligent, Saraki is very agile and Saraki is very dynamic. So if it is so, give it to him now but I know that we will get there, and as we go we will partner together. “I have been in politics as Governor for eight years and Senate President for four years. I know how politics works, I know how Government works and I know how business works.” He said that as Senate President for four years, he has the record as the best Senate President in the history of Nigeria, adding that “we stood by Nigeria despite all the persecution, carrying me to court every day. Insha Allahu in 2023 PDP will form the government that will bring jobs for you and include our women in government.” According to him, Nigeria deserves the right leader that would unite the country and bring the people together stressing that the country has never been disunited as this. Saraki said after seven years of All Progressive Congress in power, he believes Nigeria has known better and would certainly make the right choice by voting for PDP in 2023. “I believe that Nigerians know better, I believe that Nigerians are committed. Having done so many years in government, the level of unemployment now we have never seen in the history of this country. When PDP was in power, the unemployment rate was 10 per cent. “It has gone now to about 33 per cent. Nigeria is now the capital of poverty, capital of kidnapping, most students are now out of school. Nigerians have seen all these and based on that Nigerians are ready to say no more of these we want PDP back,” he said. He however promised to confront the security challenges bedevilling the country, noting, “the security situation has convinced Nigerians that APC is a misfit, and are now saying ‘no way for them again.” He vowed to prioritise and make basic education and job creation and opportunities compulsory. “Nigerians now know better having gone through joblessness and hunger,” he added. On his part, the party chairman, Maj. Gen. Amnon Kwaskebe (retd.), commended Saraki for aspiring for the number one job, adding that he is a worthy aspirant. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com