As the Peoples Democratic Party begins its primaries nationwide, concerned individuals within the party in Sokoto State has advised that they should be transparent in handling its consensus arrangements so as not to lose members ahead of the 2023 general election. Speaking with journalists on the impending dangers of imposing unpopular aspirants against the wish of the people, a reliable source from the party warned that doing so would be counter-productive. Expressing his worries, the source said, the committee set up by the local government on consensus arrangements in Sokoto South (1) State House of Assembly headed by Ibrahim Gidado (Tafarkin Sokoto) seems to have a predetermined mindset. “I can tell you with confidence that the committee have their preferred choice even before calling the aspirants for consensus. And we all know that we are heading towards a general election come 2023. “Let us also not forget that the current House of Assembly member representing Sokoto South (1) is from the APC. And if the PDP wants to reclaim the seat, then, they have to go for a pupolar candidate that have the acceptability and capacity to lead the party to victory.” While insisting that, Malami Ladan (Ardon Gagi) is the only aspirant that has that acceptability to deliver victory for the PDP in the forthcoming 2023 Sokoto South (1) House of Assembly elections, the source added that, going for primary election to produce the people’s choice remained the best option and not imposition. The source who further vowed that they are equally ready to challenge any breach of the acceptable guideline of the party in court, prayed, however, that things do not get to that point before the state governor, Aminu Tambuwal, intervenes and resolves the matter accordingly. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com