It’s season of politics and it is important to continue to enlighten different actors and stakeholders in the electoral process on what the legal regime says. There are several legal provisions guiding election in Nigeria. They include the 1999 Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, as amended; the Electoral Act 2022 and the Guidelines, Handbooks, Manuals, as well as Codes issued by the Electoral Management Bodies, i.e. the Independent National Electoral Commission (in accordance with section 148 of the E.A. 2022) and the 36 State Independent Electoral Commissions.  There are also international covenants, protocols and conventions such as those of ECOWAS, African Union and United Nations. Each political parties also have their constitutions and electoral guidelines. There are a number of sunshine provisions in the country’s electoral laws. By that I mean anti-corruption provisions. These provisions are to be found in the Nigerian Constitution, Electoral Act and Electoral Guidelines. Take for instance section 225 (1) of the 1999 CFRN, as amended; It says political parties shall submit to the INEC and publish a statement of its assets and liabilities. S. 225 (2) says, “Every political parties shall submit to INEC a detailed annual statement and analysis of its sources of funds and other assets together with a similar statement of its expenditure in such form as the Commission may require.” Section 226 of the CFRN, as amended, is also an anti-corruption provision. Sub 1 says, “The INEC shall in every year prepare and submit to the National Assembly a report on the accounts and balance sheet of each political party. Of importance to this discussion is also the provision of S. 228 (b) of the Constitution. It says, “The National Assembly may by law provide – the conferment on the Independent National Electoral Commission of powers as may appear for the National Assembly to be necessary or desirable for the purpose of enabling the Commission more effectively to ensure that political parties observe the practices of internal democracy, including the fair and transparent conduct of party primaries, party congresses and party conventions.” Away from the Constitution, the Electoral Act 2022 also have copious provisions aimed at checkmating electoral corruption. The entire gamut of infusing technology or having electronic voting system namely biometric voters’ registration, voters’ authentication using the Bimodal Voter Accreditation System, electronic voting and electronic transmission of results are meant to ensure that election results reflects voters choices. For references, see the following sections of the E.A 2022 (Voters Registration (section 9(2), Voter Authentication (section 47(2), Balloting (section 41(1), Vote Collation (section 60(5) and Vote Transmission (section 50(2). It can be reasonably argued that Section 62 (2) of the Electoral Act 2022 is also an anti-corruption provision. It provided for the National Electronic Register of Election Results. It states thus: “The Commission shall compile, maintain and update, on a continuous basis, a register of election results to be known as the National Electronic Register of Election Results which shall be a distinct database or repository of polling unit by polling unit results, including collated election results, of each election conducted by the Commission in the Federation, and the Register of Election Results shall be kept in electronic format by the Commission at its national headquarters. Section 3(3) of the new Act which stipulated that “The election funds due to the Commission for any general elections are to be released to the Commission not later than one year before the next general election” can also be extrapolated as anti-corruption provision. It will ensure that INEC is well resourced and is not impeded by funds in its electoral planning. The fact that INEC can now review any wrong declaration made by Returning Officer within seven days of the act being committed as stipulated in section 65(1) of E.A 2022 is to ensure the integrity of the election result. Also noteworthy as an anti-corruption measure is the recognition by E.A. 2022 of appointment of Polling Agents (S. 43(1). The Polling Agents, otherwise known as Party Agents, have enormous powers to follow through the distribution of election materials and personnel, observation of the voting process and even sorting, counting and announcement of election results as well as the watching of the collation process. In fact, S. 48 of the E.A. 2022 says, “A candidate or a Polling Agent may challenge the right of a person to vote on such grounds and in accordance with such procedures as are provided for in this Act.”. In order to also counter electoral fraud, Section 61 of the Act says, “A candidate or a polling agent may, where present at a polling unit when counting of votes is completed by the presiding officer, demand to have the votes recounted provided that the presiding officer shall cause the votes to be so recounted only once.” To ensure clean election, the Electoral Act 2022 has provisions against bribery and vote buying. These are contained in sections 121 and 127, Provision of s. 90 (1) is also very instructive. It says “A political party shall not accept or keep in its possession any anonymous monetary or other contributions, gifts or property, from any source.” Section 95 (2) is also germane to this discussion. It says “(2) State apparatus including the media shall not be employed to the advantage or disadvantage of any political party or candidate at any election.”  Unfortunately, in reality, this provision is observed in breach. Many of the contesting political office holders are using state resources such as time, personnel, vehicles, media and even money to campaign. Limitations on election expenses as stipulated in Section 88 of the E.A 2022 are part of the attempts to control the influence of money in Nigeria’s electoral process. However, this provision too is flagrantly flouted by the political contestants. Outside of the two aforementioned legal frameworks, international conventions permit the accreditation of national and international election observer groups and journalists. They add to electoral integrity as their reports go a long way in assessing the credibility or otherwise of the elections. On the part of INEC, part of the regulations and guidelines are that voters are not allowed to bring their mobile phones or camera into the Polling Booth. This is to keep secrecy of ballot and frustrate those who take pictures of their ballot papers in order to go and collect money from Party Agents. Irrespective of these copious legal provisions, Nigeria’s election remains one of the most expensive in the world given the commercialisation of the electoral process by desperate politicians who corrupt the process starting with inducement of party delegates during party primaries and vote buying during the general election. Given these flagrant abuse of the electoral process, both the election management bodies (INEC and SIECs) as well as anticorruption agencies have the onerous task of finding lasting solution to this menace.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com