The Academic Staff Union of Universities began its ongoing strike, on February 14, 2022, due to the Federal Government’s refusal to meet its demands. GRACE EDEMA writes on students’ endeavours in the past months. She confirmed that while some are idling away; some are acquiring vocational skills and others are learning online Oyindamola Oladunjoye was happy when she gained admission into the University of Lagos after writing the Unified Tertiary Matriculation Examination three times. It was a dream come through, having wanted to study in a federal tertiary institution. After eight weeks of rigorous lectures in her chosen field of Physiology, Oladunjoye and her fellow colleagues were elated when UNILAG fixed their matriculation for February 11, 2022. However, their joy was cut short when on February 12,  the Academic Staff Union of Universities from different campuses across the country started to arrive at UNILAG. Two days after their matriculation, specifically on February 14, 2022, ASUU, right there in UNILAG at the Aderinokun hall, announced the commencement of a four week  total strike. Oladunjoye said, “We started registration in October 2021, after waiting since April 2021 for the next batch of UTME candidates to be merged with us. So after eight weeks, we had the matriculation on February 11, and the ASUU meeting was held on our campus. We were all anticipating the outcome of the meeting. We knew there was no way there wouldn’t be a strike. So, I left the school on February 16.” After spending some weeks at home, her mother suggested that she come to the Lagos State Government Agency for Mass Education, Etunrenren, Ikorodu, to enroll for a three-month training in millinery and fascinator making. She heeded her mother’s suggestion, and she is still at the centre learning  since March. Likewise, Segun Ajayi, a 300-level student of Sociology at Ekiti State University, decided to earn a living while waiting for an end to the strike. Ajayi said he came home after EKSU finished the first-semester examination on February 8 to pick some school needs in readiness for the second semester. However, he couldn’t return to school as the strike began while still in Sango Otta, Ogun State. After waiting till the end of the initial one-month strike, Ajayi decided to earn a living instead of just sitting at home. Ajayi told The PUNCH that he got a job at a food packaging material manufacturing company where he earns N26,000 monthly. “We finished our second-semester examination on February 8. I decided to come home briefly to pick up some needs and return to school. Unfortunately, the strike met me at home in Ota, Ogun State, and I couldn’t return to school. After staying at home without the strike being called off in March, I decided to go to a company that manufactures biscuit nylon and food cartons and work in the session where we pack and arrange all the packaging materials into a store. I’m being paid N26,000 per month,” he said. For a 300 level student of Surveying and Geo-informatics, Inioluwa Olayinka, who had completed training on hair making and is now learning event decoration, explained that she had witnessed three strike actions since she gained admission to the Federal Technology, Akure, Ondo State. She revealed that she made between N4,000 and N5,000 per day from hair making. “If not for the ASUU strike, I would not be able to learn the skills I now know today. The strike helped me learn hair making which I now make some money from. Also, I will soon be through with Event Decoration which I started last month. I can make some little money and save while the ASUU strike lasts,” said Olayinka. On the contrary, another 200-level student of the Tai Solarin University of Education, Ogun State, Okikiola Ademola, said she was happy learning Catering Craft during the ongoing strike. She narrated that since the ASUU strike began, she relocated to her grandmother’s place at Ikorodu, where she enrolled. Ademola said she had wanted to learn a skill when she was much younger during her secondary school days, but her mother always discouraged her. “My mother placed premium importance on education; she detests anything skill acquisition and others; she said I should focus on getting my certificate in a tertiary institution. So when I got the opportunity of visiting my grandma, I decided not to return home. I quickly enrolled in Catering. “Since I started the training, my mother doesn’t know about it, so I’m happy that the strike allows me to learn.” Besides working in factories, picking up teaching jobs, and acquiring vocational skills, some students are always online getting certified and trained in various skills and professional courses. For instance, Josiah Adesola, a 300-level student of System Engineering, UNILAG, said, “I have been on machine learning, artificial intelligence, and data analysis, taking online courses, and working on projects. I have been trying to learn on my own too.” Students appeal to the government While some are maximising the strike, some idle away, confused and feeling frustrated. In their various campuses and states, the vibrant ones have taken to the streets to protest against the FG’s lackadaisical attitude and silence to the lecturers’ demands. In the mornings, as early as 7am, some students are seen in groups on their streets chatting with their peers and other community members; they would discuss politics, sports, girls and dating, and other vanities. The strike followed the government’s failure to implement the 2020 MoA, the University Transparency and Accountability Solution deployment to pay salaries and allowances, the release of Earned Academic Allowances for lecturers, and improved welfare and academic autonomy. Oladunjoye, who said she loved a government university campus environment and the speed at which they received lectures within eight weeks in UNILAG, said some relatives and friends were already advising her parents to enrol her in a private university. “Some family members have told my parents to take me to a private university, but I prefer to attend a federal school. But the government and this strike are making education discouraging to some of us. I took JAMB three times. Do they expect me to write another JAMB to gain admission to a private school? “Suppose I have the opportunity to do anything that doesn’t require a certificate. In that case, I will do so and consider school later. Imagine having completed a syllabus, and then strike began, and if the strike is called off, the school will rush us into the exams. We do not need this pressure. “Having a degree puts one at a certain edge. Still, having tertiary education does not matter because we now have billionaires who did not go to school. It is a pre-election year, and the government does not have time for ASUU.” She appealed to the federal government, “FG should agree with ASUU. They should be transparent. Some of us cannot continue to wait. Some people are enthusiastic about learning in Nigeria. Government should make education a priority.” Ademola, the TASUED student, also said she was supposed to be in the 300-level by September 2022. They were planning to commence the 200-level first semester exam in the first week of March 2022 when the initial one-month strike was declared in February. Ajayi said, “My advice for the government is that they should please negotiate well with ASUU so we can graduate on time and so that those seeking admission can be admitted. The strike affects me because it extends the years I should use in school.” In his opinion, Adesola advised that there was a need for the education system to be revitalised, adding that a good working and learning environment should be provided for both lecturers and students. “For me, ending the strike is not the issue. The major thing ASUU and students should clamour for is change in the education system. If the strike is suspended, It will always continue year in, year out. The curriculum, teaching spirit, and infrastructures should be put in place.” It is an appalling situation whereby all the university workers, including ASUU, the Joint Action Committee of the Non-Academic Staff Union of Educational and Associated Institutions, and the Senior Staff Association of Nigerian Universities, are currently on strike. Also, ASUP had sent a warning to commence the strike in June. ASUU, SSANU, and NASU told our correspondent that the FG did not reach a strong agreement with them that could lead to calling off the industrial actions. Almost all the tertiary institution unions in the country are presently on strike. ASUU started its strike on February 14, 2022, and JAC commenced its own on April 14, 2022. The unions embarked on industrial actions while demanding improved welfare packages, better working conditions, and the implementation of various labour agreements signed with the Federal Government between 2009 and 2020. He said, “We met with the government, but there was nothing concrete between the government and us. Like we said before, we do not want promises. We want actions, if they show action and implement all the issues, we will go to our members, but knowing their antecedents, we know they will not do anything. “They have promised us since December 2020, and it is going to be a year and a half, they have not done anything. We are waiting for them. “As far as we are concerned, only when they sign our agreements, accept UTAS, release EAA and revitalisation funds will we call the strikes off.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com