Two human rights lawyers, John Aikpokpo-Martins and Kunle Edun, have filed an action at a Federal High Court in Abuja seeking a stay proceedings on the suit filed by the Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria, Godwin Emefiele, against the Independent National Electoral Commission and the Attorney-General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami (SAN). The court processes were obtained by The PUNCH on Wednesday. Emefiele had, through his counsel, Mike Ozekhome (SAN), applied for an order of status quo ante bellum to be made against INEC and AGF so that he would not be made to resign from office until 30 days to the 2023 general election. In an ex-parte application argued on Monday, Emefiele had denied being a political appointee but a public servant not caught by Section 84 (12) of the new Electoral Act 2022. The CBN governor had asked the court to invoke section 318 of the 1999 constitution to bar the defendants from asking him to vacate office until 30 days to the February 2023 Presidential election. Emefiele expressed apprehension that sale and submission of Presidential nomination form would expire on Wednesday and that unless the INEC and AGF were ordered to maintain status ante bellum as at May 5 when he filed the suit, he would be made to vacate office before his form would be accepted by the appropriate authority. However in a brief ruling, Justice Ahmed Mohammed turned down the request for the order. Instead, the Judge ordered him to put the defendants on notice and also serve court processes on the defendants. Justice Mohammed ordered the defendants to appear before him on May 12 and show cause on why the request should not be granted. But the activists, in the suit with Ref. No. FHC/ABJ/CS/610/2022, filed for themselves and members of a human rights organisation “Save Nigeria, our Father’s Land”, asked the court to join them as the third and fourth defendants in the case. They asked for “an order granting stay of proceedings of this suit, pending the determination of this application.” The also asked for “an order directing the plaintiff to amend the originating processes filed in this suit to reflect the joinder granted by this honorable court.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com