Like Nigeria, several climate activists, on Tuesday, stormed an ongoing Annual General Meeting of the British Oil Company, Shell, to protest oil exploration by the company. The protesters in their numbers gathered at Shell’s venue of its Annual General Meeting in London, United Kingdom, chanting “Shame on Shell”, and singing “all we are saying, stop oil and gas”, and “we will stop you.” According to the live streaming by @XRUK_Live on Twitter, Shell’s AGM was put on hold as the protesters practically took over the venue. The PUNCH reported, Monday, that civil society organisations comprising people of the Niger Delta region, environmental activists, representatives of host oil and gas communities, human rights groups, students, youths, artisans, and media practitioners, on Monday, held a rally at the office of Shell, Marina, in Lagos. They were asking that Shell should stop oil and gas extraction in Nigeria, and urged investors to stop funding Shell’s operations, owing to the environmental damage that the company’s operations were allegedly causing to the water, land, and human resources in Nigeria. They equally called for a limit of global warming to 1.5 degrees Celsius above pre-industrial level, and demanded, amongst others, an end to carbon emission. They equally called for a people-centered transition from fossil fuel to clean energy in Nigeria as well as the clean-up of the Ogoni land and the entire Niger Delta region. Reacting to the development in the UK, the convener of Africa Network for Environmental and Economic Justice, a part of the frontal CSOs that led the yesterday’s action in Lagos, Rev. David Ugolor, said, “Yes, we welcome the shut down of the Shell AGM and we have to end Shell impunity in Niger Delta.” In London, the Shell chairman, Sir Andrew Mackenzie, reportedly became increasingly disturbed over the protests as he asked for silence, but had to later formally halt the meeting after about 50 minutes, following the relentless efforts of the protesters. A stakeholder at meeting was seen shouting at the protesters, saying “out! out! out!” It was also gathered that the police arrived at the meeting, but rather watched as the protests went on for up to an hour. Climate change has been a major issue across the world as the effects of global warming, resulting from fossil fuel combustion, pose a great danger to nature and humans, reportedly leading to flooding, wildfires, food scarcity, and communal clashes in parts of Africa. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com