ONE issue that has dominated discussions around the opposition Peoples Democratic Party as the nation braces up for the 2023 general elections is that of zoning. In fact, it has become like an albatross with pro- and anti-zoning elements within the party sticking to their guns and vehemently unyielding. However, if feelers from the party are anything to go by, then the party might have finally jettisoned the idea of zoning and thrown its door open to aspirants to try their political lucks irrespective of which part of the country they come from. The implication of this is that those who are pushing for the zoning of the presidential ticket of the party to the South have lost out. In fact, that seems to be stale news as former Senate President and chairman of the Screening Committee of the party had told newsmen on Friday, April 29 that the party had screened 16 presidential aspirants and out of the 16, two had been disqualified. He did not give the name of the two aspirants that were disqualified. But that was inconsequential. What really mattered was that expected names made the cut. These included former Vice President Atiku Abubakar, former Senate President, Bukola Saraki, former Governor of Anambra State, Peter Obi, current Governor of Rivers State, Nyesom Wike, former Governor of Ekiti State, Ayo Fayose, and of course, a former banker and statesman, Mohammed Hayatudeen. The dilemma within the PDP’s top echelon is the fact that the party is torn between pandering to the emotions of power rotation or leveraging on the voting strength of the North to ensure that they edge out the ruling All Progressives Congress in the 2023 presidential election. A source within the party had hinted that if both parties zoned their presidential tickets to the South, then PDP should forget it. The thinking is that the APC will simply use the power of incumbency to ensure that their candidate wins the election. However, if the PDP throws its presidential ticket open and a Northerner picks it, then some extraneous elements like ethnic solidarity and the need to retain power tilt the balance in favour of the PDP with the belief that northerners could vote across party lines just as they did in 2015 when the PDP could not make way in the North and Buhari’s APC swept the polls. Now, should the PDP ticket be going to the North, perhaps, it is high time the North-East has a look-in and be the beneficiary? And even if it would be the beneficiary, then it has to be someone who does not have any political baggage to deal with. And that is where surprisingly, the name of Mohammed Hayatudeen comes in. But that will be returned to shortly. If there is any region that has been ravaged by insurgency and bandits’ attacks for the greater part of the last ten years, it is the North-East. Beyond this, the region has not been adequately represented at the highest level of government for some time now. Check the list: The late former President Umaru Musa Ya’Adua was from the North-West. Former Vice President Namadi Sambo is also from the North-West. Current President Muhammadu Buhari is also from the North-West. Former Senate presidents, Bukola Saraki and Bonaventure David Mark, were both from the North-Central. This leaves the North-East unfairly shortchanged in terms of being given elective governmental positions at the highest level. While this might look like pandering to primordial and ethnic sentiments in picking the candidate for the nation’s number one job, it must also be noted that the idea of having positions shared between the six geo-political zones was also borne out of the need to give every zone a sense of belonging. And now, that sense of belonging has to start from the intra-party exercise of picking a presidential standard-bearer. There has been a massive furore over the picking of the presidential standard-bearer of the opposition PDP. But the party seems to have thrown it open with the screening of its aspirants irrespective of where they come from. And that is good for democracy. Though advocates of zoning will naturally see it from a different point of view entirely, that is expected in a pluralistic society. Now to the issue of the PDP ticket as it affects the North and especially the North-East. Should the ticket find its way to the North, then in the name of fairness, the North-East should naturally pick it. This may seem farfetched due to the nature of our politics as a nation but it is not impossible. In fact, it is arguable if anyone from the North-East geo-political zone has ever made it to the highest office in the land. The closest has been Atiku Abubakar who served as deputy to President Olusegun Obasanjo between 1999 and 2007. He has tried several times to get the highest office in the land but has not succeeded. A tested politician but the nation can do without the old veterans. And that is why the aspiration of Hayatudeen needs to be looked at with more than a cursory eye. While he is not a career politician and, in an actual sense, there are quite a number of odds against him, especially as it has to do with national appeal and political structure, the fact also remains that whomever a party chooses to be its standard-bearer, the party has to place all its structure behind such person. But beyond that, perhaps, the PDP could look for a completely new face from the North-East and push him forward if its ticket would be coming to the North since the contest has been thrown open. And apart from former Vice President Atiku Abubakar, only Hayatudeen again is contesting from the North-East. While it is the old political horses that have the resources and structure on hand to run, collectively, the nation can also say, may be a new person or new face might be needed even if the ticket comes to the North-East. And with credentials still untainted by any scandal even if he could be described as a political greenhorn pitched against old horses, Hayatudeen could actually be a compromise to compensate the North-East if the PDP ticket is coming to that zone. This is tough. Really tough. The only consolation is that it is not impossible. And that is the consolation. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com