THE Lagos State Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, has said his administration will continue to collaborate with partners and stakeholders in the private sector to contribute to the state’s development. The governor disclosed this according to a statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Gboyega Akosile, on Wednesday, when the management of Parallex Bank Limited led by its Managing Director, Olufemi Bakre, paid him a courtesy visit at the Lagos House, Marina. Sanwo-Olu said his government was service-driven based on the administration’s commitments to the citizens by improving quality of lives, providing security of lives and property and providing a friendly and conducive environment for businesses to thrive. He said, “We are open to doing additional businesses with any of the financial institutions. Lagos will continue to be a major player in the public sector space and we are very disciplined because we never default on all our responsibilities in terms of repayment and others. “We will continue to collaborate with partners and stakeholders in the private sector who want to contribute to the growth and development of the state. So, I am very sure that we are a credible creditor to banks.” Sanwo-Olu also received the management of the LOTUS Bank Limited led by its Managing Director, Kafilat Olaoye, during a courtesy visit. In his address, Bakre commended the incumbent government’s performance which he said was visible in the area of transportation, health, making Lagos 21st century economy, information and technology, security and governance. Olaoye also noted that her organisation is ready to partner with the Lagos State government in developmental projects, adding that Sanwo-Olu has done a lot in the last three years. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com