The Chartered Insurance Institute of Nigeria has urged students to consider a career path in insurance in line with its awareness creation, promotion and education mandate, especially among youths. A statement said the President/Chairman, CIIN, Muftau Oyegunle, spoke during the fifth edition of its quiz competition for secondary schools students in Nigeria held at Model Girls Secondary Schools, Rumueme, Port Harcourt. Oyegunle, who was represented by the Deputy President, CIIN, Mr Edwin Igbiti, said the quiz competition was borne out of the CIIN’s desire to enlighten and introduce young minds to the amazing world of insurance. The initiative was also aimed at promoting the significance of insurance in daily lives, community development, poverty elimination, economic advancement and world peace, he said. “Insurance ensures that we have adequate safety nets against the misfortunes of life by providing compensation for its customers that enable them to survive the adversities of life. Hence, insurance provides us with a means of protecting ourselves and our families from unexpected but possible financial losses while also enhancing the capacity to build wealth. “This competition is designed to create awareness among you, the young adults, who we consider the future of our industry, about the importance of insurance as a service and the career opportunities it offers to students like you. “It is my belief that whatever you have learnt during the preparation for the competition shall impact your lives positively. Similarly, the knowledge and information you receive here today would assist you in your career choices. “I sincerely hope that every student here would maximise the opportunities which this competition provides and make insurance his/her course of first choice when going into the university,” he said. After three levels of the competition, Government Girls Secondary school, Oromerueke, emerged as the winner out of the seven schools that participated. Its participants, Sunday Godslove and Uchechukwu Christabel, walked off with victory. The previous editions of the quiz competition were held in Lagos, Ogun, Abuja and Maiduguri States.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com