The sit-at-home order declared by the Indigenous People of Biafra, on Tuesday, brought economic activities in Abakaliki, Ebonyi State and some parts of Anambra State to a halt. The exercise, which recorded over 75 per cent compliance rate in Ebonyi State, saw markets, banks and shops shut down. One of our correspondents, who monitored the exercise in Abakaliki in the early hours of Tuesday, observed that between 7am and 10am, there were no vehicular and human movements. Our correspondents noted that bank premises were locked with the national flag lowered in offices. Parks of major transport companies such as Peace, Onitsha South, GUO, Ifesinachi, Eastern Mass and ROMCHI, among others, were shut down. Filling stations were also shut down. The IPOB had declared May 18 and 26, 2022 as sit-at-home days for the people of the South-East as both days coincide with the court dates of its detained leader, Nnamdi Kanu. In a statement on Saturday, the group’s Media and Publicity Secretary, Emma Powerful, dissociated itself from a voice note purportedly announcing different dates, saying that any other date was not from IPOB. Powerful noted that the group’s core mandate is the well-being of Biafrans all over the globe. The statement read in part, “Our attention has been drawn to a purported voice note ordering Biafrans and residents of Biafraland to sit at home on a date other than May 18. This is the handiwork of paid agents and should be totally ignored. “Those behind the purported voice note should inform their pay masters to stop dissipating their energy and resources in a hopeless attempt to stop the collective will and decision of Biafrans worldwide to pursue our self determination right.” Army kills four IPOB members The Nigerian Army said troops of 34 Brigade Obinze killed four suspected members of IPOB during a gun duel in Orlu Local Government Area of Imo State. The Army said the suspected IPOB members opened fire on the troops who were on patrol in the area, adding that the troops overpowered them. A statement on Monday by the Director of Army Public Relations, Brig General Onyema Nwachukwu, read in part, “Troops of 34 Brigade Obinze have neutralised four members of IPOB and its armed wing, Eastern Security Network, in a fierce encounter that ensued at Amaifeke and Ihioma in Orlu Local Government Area of Imo State. “The terrorists were taken out yesterday (Monday), May 16, 2022, while shooting sporadically, threatening lives and property of innocent citizens. “The irate dissidents opened fire on sighting the patrol team, who were out to ensure safety and security of lives and property of citizens. The vigilant troops engaged the criminals and neutralised four of them, while others succumbed to the superior fire power of the troops and escaped from the scene. “Items recovered from the encounter include one pump action shotgun, 10 live cartridges, one Hilux truck, mobile handsets and charms.” Anger as sit-at-home grounds activities in Anambra Residents of Anambra State have expressed concern over the way sit-at-home order has been grounding commercial, academic and social activities in the state. Their complaints came as the sit-at-home entered the second day on Tuesday. One of our correspondents, who monitored situation in major cities such as Onitsha, Obosi, Oba, Nnewi, Ekwulobia and Awka, observed that banks, schools, markets, motor parks, offices and filling stations were shot as people stayed indoors. The Chairman, South-East Traders Forum, Chief Osita Udeh, said the situation is causing the region to lose billions of naira in terms of transactions. Police neutralise hoodlums enforcing sit-at-home Meanwhile, the operatives of the Anambra State Police Command, on Tuesday, neutralised hoodlums who were enforcing the sit-at-home in the state. The suspects were said to be operating around the Ogidi axis in Idemili Local Government Area, when they confronted the security operatives. The state Police Public Relations Officer, Tochukwu Ikenga, confirmed the development, saying the command and other sister agencies had been on patrol to maintain law and order in the state. Ikenga urged the people to go about their normal duties without any form of intimidation, harassment or worry while assuring them of adequate security. Gunmen list nine LGAs for attack Meanwhile, gunmen have written to about nine local government areas in the state that they plan to attack soon. The local government areas named by the hoodlums are Ihiala, Aguata, Nnewi South, Awka North, Awka South, Idemili North, Idemili South, Orumba South, Orumba North and Anambra East. In a message to the LGAs, they warned security operatives to get ready for action in ‘Biafra Land.’ According to the note, “These local government areas should wait for us soon. We are warning our dear Professor that it is time for action and not time to speak big grammar and talking. All the security men occupying should get ready for action. “Go and tell the President to release our oga, Onyendu, Mazi Nnamdi Kanu, or face continuous war.” While reacting to the gunmen’s threat, Ikenga, said, “For us, it is call for more work, we shall leave no stone unturned to make sure that law and order is maintained in the state. “If you have been following the security concern here in Anambra, you will understand that the police and security agencies are firm. “Every day, we evolve new strategies to address security concerns/threats as they emerge. Our primary duty is to protect lives and property.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com