The Ebonyi State Chairman of the All Progressives Congress, Chief Stanley Okoro-Emegha, has said the Peoples Democratic Party had been defeated with its fragments handicapped in the state. Okoro-Emegha made this known, on Tuesday, while reacting on the recent judgement of a Federal High Court Abuja, which sacked the embattled chairman of the PDP in the state, Tochukwu Okorie. According to Okoro-Emegha, the recent development had no bearing on the activities of his party, saying the PDP had never been a viable opposition in the state since Governor David Umahi left the party in 2020. He said, “Before now, only few disgruntled elements were parading themselves as a political party called the PDP, but with the court’s pronouncement today and subsequent swearing in of another person as its Chairman, it means there is more trouble among the so called individuals. “For me, how can a political party which could not elect its leaders in a manner acceptable by the law boast of any relevance. Let me tell you that, if they want let them appoint anybody as a Chairman, they cannot win even single elective position in the state come 2023 general election. “The Ebonyi PDP is just a group of ungrateful, barbaric, unscrupulous people seeking relevance at all cost. I have never considered the PDP as an opposition because it lacks unity, strength and organisation as a political party. “Immediately the state governor, David Umahi, defected to the APC in November, 2020, the opposition political party died in Ebonyi. “How can a political party without a structure in terms of leadership and also that operates from a hotel be dreaming of even a tangible success. The PDP is totally abysmal. “If this is a misfortune or debacle, please let them sought themselves out and learn not be jumping the gun by following due process because this is not the era where the PDP was in charge of the country and was allowing impunity and abuse of process to be the order of the day. “Just yesterday also, the PDP rats saturated the media with fake news saying that my Governor, Chief David Nweze Umahi, has dropped his presidential ambition. In a swift response to that unfounded allegation, I told the APC faithful and Nigerians at large to discountenance the rumour because it was the handiwork of evil minded PDP members who never wished the people any good.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com