A former governor of Plateau State, Jonah Jang, has said that Nigeria must embrace the South East region of the country to move forward. Jang, a chieftain of the Peoples Democratic Party, made the call in an interview with journalists at his residence in Jos while reacting to the exit of prominent politicians from the South East from the party. The PUNCH reports that several prominent politicians from the South East region had left the PDP in the build up to the 2023 general elections with the recent being a former governor of Anambra State and presidential aspirant, Peter Obi, as well as the former Senate Minority Leader, Enyinnaya Abaribe, among others. According to him, no part of the country should be marginalised under any guise. Jang said, “If I say I am not concerned about these personalities leaving the PDP, then I am not being honest because they are people of high integrity and honour. “If you see what is happening both in the PDP and the APC, that complaint of alienation and marginalisation has been coming from the South East geopolitical zone of the country. “If you just see the PDP own, just wait and see what will happen in the APC because the people from that zone believe that they are being neglected and they are reacting to that situation which is not good for our country. “ I think what the whole nation should do is to embrace our brothers from the South East because they belong to this nation and Nigeria belongs to all of us.” He also condemned those using the civil war experience against the South East. “No section is superior to any section in this country. Yes, we fought a civil war but the civil war is long gone and the Igbos must be embraced to be part of this nation. “ So, if the Presidency doesn’t go to the South East after the 2023 general elections, whoever wins should go for genuine reconciliation and make everyone feel a sense of belonging because there is the need to have a president that will look at Nigeria as belonging to everyone and we have not seen that under the APC administration given the way appointments and other state matters were handled”, he said.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com