The Old Grammarians’ Society has said it will make the first school in Nigeria, CMS Grammar School, Bariga, Lagos, the best in Africa and a model for other schools. Speaking on Monday at a press conference about the activities lined up for the 163rd founder day ceremony, the President of OGS, Mr Olu Vincent, explained that a lot of developments had taken place since the return of the school.  He added that the old boys were pleased to have contributed to the noble cause, saying they would do more in the restoration project. The celebration which started with a Sunday service on May 29, 2022 and a mentoring session on Monday, May 30, 2022, with the students at the school’s hall, would end on June 6, 2022. Vincent said, “Later in the week, we shall have prize-giving celebrations for our students and teachers. There will be thanksgiving and luncheon too. The school is the first and greatest secondary school in Nigeria and will one day be the greatest in Africa. The proprietors of the school must be acknowledged for their determination to ensure academic excellence; inculcating sound moral values with the fear of God.” He added that the performance of the students in various examinations had justified the investment put in place. Speaking, the principal of the school, Revd Jacob Ogunyinka, said the proprietors are ready to make CMS Grammar School a model by going back to a full boarding school. He said, “We want to make CMS Grammar School a model for others by going back to full boarding school.  This will make the students have sound morals and attain excellence in academics and we will be able to control their time for meaningful and impactful activities. The school is working assiduously to ensure we have an excellent school in all ramifications.”  Contact: theeditor@punchng.com Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com