African Development Bank says it will collaborate with microfinance banks to expand support for the Micro Small and Medium-scale Enterprises and deepen financial inclusion in Nigeria through increased uptake of financial technology tools. The President, AfDB, Mr. Akinwunmi Adesina, said this during the seventh annual symposium of the Nigerian Microfinance Platform, held in Abuja. Akinwunmi, who was represented by the Director-General, Nigeria Country Office, AfDB, Lamin Barrow, said that microfinance banks and MSMEs were key to the economy and job creation, noting that the lender places emphasis on poverty reduction, among others. A statement quoted him as saying, “But they need our support and so through our mediated support through the Development Bank of Nigeria  and others, we have supported about 20,000 MSMEs, but given the large number of MSMEs in Nigeria, this support is like scratching the surface. So we need partners like yourselves and others to penetrate and even in larger numbers.” While commending the theme of the NMP Symposium, ‘Expanding the Frontiers of Financial Inclusion Through Innovation: The Microfintech Tools’, Adesina said the AfDB would work with all stakeholders to expand financial inclusion in Nigeria including through increased innovation and uptake of fintech tools. He said, “It is the bank’s belief that this symposium we help us develop a more holistic understanding of the financial needs of underserved households and small businesses and develop ways to enhance access to affordable products “We are seeing the development of powerful new technologies and there is, therefore, the need to seek ways to combine technologies in a way that moves the needle on financial inclusion “The bank, your bank, is keen to contribute to building a definitive ecosystem in Nigeria and we commend NMP for conveying this symposium Also speaking at the symposium, the Deputy Governor, Financial System Surveillance, CBN, Aisha Ahmad, challenged MFBs to recognise that microfintech, which is fintech applications adapted to microfinance, a veritable tool for surpassing the nation’s financial inclusion target. As such, he advised the MfBs to come up with ways to deploy them to provide a cost-efficient manner to microfinance clients. “MicroFinTech sweeps that traditional cost structure away and can operate without huge overheads as the marginal cost of delivering software to a new user is near zero. By leveraging technology – smartphones, peer authentication, and even the e-Naira, the cost of delivering a microfinance service drops sharply. And as the cost drops, the cost-benefit ratio improves and profitability increases,” she said. Also, the Managing Director/CEO, Nigeria Deposit Insurance Corporation, Mallam Hassan Bello, stressed the need for the MfBs to come up with innovative products that would not only attract more people into the sector, but also restore truth and dignity to the people who are deficit in both through the disruption of mobile technology operators, and to keep expanding and cut cost. He added that the corporation on its part is currently reviewing its framework for financial and technical support to the MFBs sector in order to bring it up to the contemporary business dynamics and after it is done it will be more robust and accessible to eligible MFBs. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com