A former Deputy Governor of Central Bank of Nigeria, Chief Adebayo Adelabu, has announced his exit from the All Progressives Congress after losing the party’s governorship ticket to Senator Teslim Folarin. Adelabu, who was the APC governorship candidate in 2019, said at an emergency meeting with his followers on Sunday that he had dumped the party following the advice of his followers He said he would announce the new political party he would join within the next 48 hours. Adelabu said, “My followers have asked me to leave the APC, I have left the APC. “We will sit down with our leaders to decide on the political party to join. We will come back to the APC after winning the governorship election, because we are progressives. “It worked during the time of late Senator  Abiola Ajimobi, he left the Action Congress and went to All Nigeria Peoples Party and later came back to Action Congress of Nigeria. “Just give us 48 hours to get back to you to announce the next political party to join.” Adelabu had, earlier in a statement, described the primary election conducted by Senator Tokunbo Afikuyomi-led electoral committee as a charade but insisted he would contest the governorship election in 2023. He said, “All I can tell the whole world for now is that I am going to contest in the 2023 general elections as a governorship candidate, no matter what. This is the only reason why I left my groovy career as a deputy governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria in 2018. “No amount of intimidation, threat or harassment can stop me from my passionate ambition of revolutionising the political, social and economic landscape of Oyo state through machinery of government. “As of today, I am not a member of SDP or any other political party as being widely circulated by media organisations. Appropriate steps will be taken after consultations in due course. “What happened at Liberty Stadium Oke Ado at the governorship primary election of the APC is nothing but a show of shame and mockery of the APC internal democracy. I fully dissociate myself from such mockery of our political system. “The one day delay in conducting the primary was meant to enable them perfect their act of manipulation as nothing stopped the committee from conducting the election on the original date fixed. This foul play was quickly noticed by me, hence my decision to opt out of the shameless process.” When contacted, Folarin’s media aide, Yekeen Olaniyi, disagreed with Adelabu on the claims of manipulation of the exercise. He said, “The process that produced Folarin was free, fair and credible. The exercise was shifted from Thursday to Friday because of influx of non-delegates and hoodlums that wanted to disrupt the process. “We had very peaceful primary elections in the history of Oyo State as there was no report of violence and manipulation by either the media or security agencies. “The INEC, security agencies and observations confirmed that the process was peaceful, credible and fair. All aspirants were not only carried along but also participated from start to the end. “Any displeased aspirant should approach the Appeal Committee setup by the National Secretariat of the party. They’re on ground to listen to all grievances. As for me, there is no winner, no vanquished. All of us are winners.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com