Aggrieved civil servants in Borno State have expressed disapproval of the recent donations by some leaders of associations and professional bodies towards the purchase of expression of interest and nomination forms for the re-election bid of the Borno State Governor Prof Babagana Zulum for a second term in office. The aggrieved government workers disclosed that the actions of their leaders are a confirmation that the leadership have been compromised despite the harsh working conditions introduced by the Zulum administration. This was contained in a statement titled, “Vote of no confidence in Borno State Governor and the Borno State labour leaders”, and signed by “concerned Civil servants”. The statement read in part, “Our state Borno is sick, many civil servants are undecided on whether to stay or migrate, though much medical personnel and the lecturers have gone to places where their services are being respected. More other civil servants have left the state’s service and joined the NGO and left those that have no option but to wait for another administration that may come to their aid. “We are asking you to withdraw your false claims that you made against us that we have determined to ensure that Governor Zulum continues in office, that we will buy the Expression of Interest and Nomination forms for the 2023 governorship election for Zulum. Zulum willingly denied to pay us our yearly increment, promotion benefits, leave grant, our eight months areas of consequential adjustment, pension and gratuity. With which money do you want us to buy him the Expression of Interest and the Nomination forms?” Reacting, Umar Shettima said the decision to contribute for the purchase of the forms for the governor was a collective decision. “We met as an association and made the decision to purchase the forms because we the nurses and midwives of Borno know what the governor has done for us,” he said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com