World Hypertension Day is a day initiated to increase awareness about hypertension. It was started in 2005 by the World Hypertension League, a non-profit and non-governmental organisation comprised predominantly of volunteers from 80 national hypertension societies dedicated to the prevention and control of hypertension globally. Commemorating the day was launched on May 14, 2005, but since 2006, May 17 has been designated to commemorate world hypertension day. With the theme Measure Your Blood Pressure Accurately, Control It, Live Longer, this year’s WHD focuses on combating the low awareness rates worldwide, especially in low and middle-income areas, and accurate blood pressure measurement methods. Hypertension is a non-communicable global epidemic and a leading risk factor for death and disability worldwide. Also referred to as high blood pressure, hypertension is a cardiovascular condition in which the blood vessels have persistently raised pressure. Blood pressure is the force exerted by the blood against the walls of the blood vessels (arteries) as it is pumped by the heart. Normally, a person’s blood pressure rises and falls throughout the day. However, it damages the heart and causes several health problems if it stays high for a long time. A person is diagnosed as hypertensive when the blood pressure measurement on two different days shows a systolic blood pressure reading of ≥ 140mmHg and diastolic blood pressure reading of ≥ 90mmHg, on both days. The systolic blood pressure, written as the first number, is the pressure in blood vessels when the heart contracts or beats while the diastolic blood pressure is the pressure in the blood vessels when the heart rests between beats. However, hypertension is called a silent killer because most people with hypertension are unaware of their condition as it may have no warning signs or symptoms, or perhaps show symptoms that are not specific to the medical condition. Therefore, regular blood pressure measurement is very important to even young adults. Eating unhealthy diets such as excessive salt consumption, a diet high in saturated and trans-fat, and a low intake of fruits and vegetables, smoking, consuming alcohol, being physically inactive, aged, overweight or obese, having co-existing diseases such as diabetes and kidney disease or a family history of hypertension are factors that increase the risk of developing hypertension. The risk? Hypertension left undetected or uncontrolled damages the blood vessels, thus decreasing the flow of blood and oxygen to the heart and other organs. This leads to health complications including heart attack, which occurs when the blood supply to the heart is blocked and heart muscles die from lack of oxygen; stroke, as a result of a lack of blood and oxygen flowing to the brain; heart failure, occurring because the increased workload from high blood pressure causes the heart to enlarge and fail to supply blood to the body. In addition, hypertension can lead to kidney failure, vision loss, and sexual dysfunction. The best way to know if you have high blood pressure is to know your numbers, i.e. have your blood pressure checked. Blood pressure tests can be done in pharmacies and clinics. Also, automated devices that enable home measurements now exist. You simply need to put on the cuff, press a button and the results are displayed digitally. However, note that a high blood pressure diagnosis must be confirmed by a medical professional. To measure your blood pressure at home accurately, do not smoke, eat or use medications, drink caffeinated beverages, or exercise within 30 minutes before measuring your blood pressure. Also, empty your bladder, as a full one can temporarily increase the blood pressure, and have at least five minutes of quiet rest before measurements. In addition, sit in a relaxed position, your back and arm should be supported, both feet placed flat on the floor and your legs should not be crossed. The bottom of the cuff should be placed directly above the bend of the elbow (at the heart level), on the bare skin or on over-thin clothing. Finger and/or wrist blood pressure devices are not recommended. Lastly, resist the urge to talk or move during blood pressure measurement as they both affect accuracy. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com