An Indian national, Devendra Singh, has allegedly committed suicide at his private office on Egbeyemi Street, in the Ilupeju area of Lagos State. Until his death, Singh, 42, was said to be a field worker at the Agro Nigeria Limited, in the Ikeja area of the state. PUNCH Metro gathered that the victim’s driver had conveyed him to his office last Friday when the incident happened. Upon entering the premises, our correspondent learnt that Singh got down from the vehicle and proceeded to the office to commence his work for the day. Things, however, took another turn when Singh stayed in the office beyond the usual closing hour. His driver was said to have called his phone number several times without any response. A source, on Sunday, said the driver, who peeped through the window, was shocked at the sight of the lifeless remains of his boss dangling from a rope. The source said, “The driver called his colleagues around 7.30pm saying he brought his boss to the office in the morning and that his boss was not out and that he had tried calling him and he did not pick his calls. His colleagues then informed their company’s chief security officer. “A few minutes later, the driver peeped through the window of the office and saw that his boss had hanged himself on the iron hook used in holding a ceiling fan. Some of his colleagues, who rushed down to the place, also confirmed seeing the Indian man’s lifeless body dangling from the rope. “So, they reported back to their CSO, who advised them to report to the police. It was the police that came to the private office to forcefully open the door and met his corpse in that same position. “He locked himself inside the office and when the police managed to open the place, they saw the side table he climbed to hang himself and afterwards, he pushed it. Singh didn’t write any suicide note.” Our correspondent gathered that after the police recovered Singh’s corpse on Friday, April 30, 2022, his remains were deposited in the mortuary at the Mainland Hospital, Yaba, Lagos, for an autopsy. The state Police Public Relations Officer, Benjamin Hundeyin, said the state Commissioner of Police, Abiodun Alabi, had ordered an investigation to unravel the circumstances surrounding Singh’s death. He added, “Investigation has begun to ascertain if it is truly suicide or murder/manslaughter packaged as suicide.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com