Following the gruesome murder of the lawmaker representing the Aguata II Constituency in the Anambra State House of  Assembly, Okechukwu Okoye, lawmakers in the state have stated that they are looking up to the state governor, Prof Chukwuma Soludo, for more protection. Speaking with our correspondent on Monday, the state House of Assembly spokesman, Mr Emma Madu, described the mood of the lawmakers as calm and serene. Madu said the lawmakers were not in any mood to flee the state as they are optimistic that the current security challenges facing the state are not insurmountable. Madu said, “The lawmakers are looking up to the governor to enhance protection around them. The governor is the Chief Security Officer of the state and is, therefore, expected to do that. “They have met with the governor on the day of the incident, although I am not aware of the outcome of the meeting. All I know is that they discussed their security with the governor and what they intend to do is within them. The mood around them is calm as they are not happy with the ongoing situation right now.” The lawmaker and his aide, Cyril Chiegboka, were kidnapped by yet to be identified assailants on May 15, 2022, and later beheaded by the kidnappers as their heads dumped on a road at Amichi area on Saturday. The gruesome murder of the lawmaker and his aide has generated wild fear and reactions from stakeholders in the state. But the state police commissioner, Echeng Echeng, said, although no politician or lawmaker had approached the command for more security, the police, based on the threats of gunmen, would beef up security around them and every other public utilities. Echeng added that more security measures were being put in place to tackle the menace of gunmen. While addressing journalists on Monday, Echeng said the command would work in concert with sister security agencies to ensure that the masterminds responsible for the heinous crime are speedily brought to justice. He said, “The politicians have not approached the command to beef up security around them but there is every possibility that it may likely happen and security will be provided, especially for the protection of public utilities. “The police will do everything allowed by law to bring perpetrators of these killings to justice.” Echeng said the headless bodies of the victims had been recovered for preservation and autopsy. He said, “A relation of Okoye had reported to the police in Ekwulobia, Aguata Local Government Area that he had seen a headless corpse, allegedly lying along Nnobi – Ideani Road which looked like that of the aide of the abducted lawmaker. The police operatives accompanied him to the scene and found the claim to be true. “The headless body was recovered for preservation and autopsy. Later on the same day, information was received that the head of the lawmaker was seen at Amichi in Nnewi South Local Government Area, which in recent times has been the epicentre of attacks by unknown gunmen on security forces, vigilante groups and defenceless civilians. “Leads gathered so far are being explored with a view to bringing perpetrators of this senseless crime to justice.” While condemning the barbaric act, he said the police, other security agencies and defenseless civilians have been at the receiving end of similar gruesome attacks by gunmen in recent times. The police boss called on all stakeholders to put an end to these targeted killings in the larger interest of the people and the nation as a whole. He also cautioned communities to stop shielding criminal elements.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com