The Christian Association of Nigeria, on Saturday, said it had forgiven Sterling Bank and its Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer, Abubakar Suleiman over the provocative and demeaning Easter greeting advertisement considered blasphemous to Jesus Christ. The bank which had, in the message, compared the resurrection of Jesus Christ to ‘Agege Bread’, thereafter, apologised in its letter dated April 20, 2022, to CAN. In a statement by its General Secretary, Joseph Daramola, CAN said some well-meaning and highly placed Nigerians had been appealing to forgive in the Christian spirit and in consonance with the message of Easter. He said, “As a result of this development, CAN has resolved to forgive Sterling Bank and its Chief Executive. We always remember that ‘to err is human and to forgive is divine.’ “In taking this step, we are following the footsteps of our Lord and Saviour, Jesus Christ, who asked God to forgive those who nailed Him to the cross unjustly and has taught us to forgive always. “We hereby call on all Christians in the country to join us in forgiving the Sterling Bank and its management. Those who are considering stopping patronising the bank as a result of the blunder should stop the process but instead continue doing business with the bank. “We appeal to corporate institutions especially the banks to be more sensitive, considerate, and professional in handling their public messages. Whatever can cause religious crises in the country should be avoided at all costs, both by the government and the business sector. “We appreciate our youths who heeded our directive and refused to be dragged into the streets to protest against the bank as being touted in some quarters. “Finally, we acknowledge and appreciate the efforts of the well-meaning Nigerians who intervened in the matter.
“May the blessings of peacemakers be their portion in Jesus’ name.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com