Former Lagos Governor and National Leader of the All Progressives Congress, Bola Tinubu, on Thursday met Kaduna delegates ahead of the party’s presidential primary slated later for the month. At the Umar Yar’Adua Indoor Sports Hall of the Murtala Square, the delegates instantly endorsed the presidential aspiration of the former governor. This followed a voice vote put across to the delegates by the Kaduna State Governor, Nasir El-Rufai. This is just as the presidential hopeful told the delegates that he was confident that he would be the next occupant of Aso Rock Presidential Villa after the tenure of the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.) in 2023. “Some are running, I don’t know where they are going but I am going to the Villa,” Tinubu told the delegates while addressing them. He added that he remains the best of all the presidential aspirants on the platform of the APC, urging the delegates to cast their votes for him during the party’s presidential primary. The former governor said he was in the state to identify with them and assure them that if elected President, he would defeat “all the evil called banditry.” Meanwhile, the governor described the APC national leaders as “Asiwaju of the Federal Republic of Nigeria.” El-Rufai noted that Kaduna State has been consistent in giving the ruling party the third highest votes in all the elections between 2015 and 2019. The Governor then asked the delegates if they would vote for the former Lagos State helmsman during the party’s Presidential primaries slated later for the month. Giving assurance to the national leader of the party, the governor added, “These are the people that delivered the highest votes to President Buhari both in 2015 and 2019.” El-Rufai noted that the former Governor had the capacity to lead, adding that he had worked together with him while presiding over the affairs of the Bureau of Public Enterprise and the Minister of the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com