The national delegates of the All Progressives Congress have been urged to support Vice President Yemi Osinbajo to win the party’s presidential ticket in the presidential primary election that will hold soon. The National Chairman, Professor Yemi Osinbajo Support Group, Babatunde Olokun, said this in an interview with journalists on the sidelines of the inauguration of six state chapters -Lagos, Ogun, Oyo, Osun, Ondo and Ekiti States, of the group in Ibadan on Saturday. He said Nigeria needed Osinbajo’s experience at this time. Olokun said the country did not need a newcomer who would start learning basic things about governance and how to fix the problems facing the country after inauguration. He added that none of the presidential aspirants can boast of the experience, the agility and the capacity of the Vice President. He said “He (Osinbajo) has been there for seven years. He is a man that will hit the ground running. He knows where the problems lie in governance and ways to resolve the issues. He is intelligent, passionate and will fulfill all his promises.” The Zonal Coordinator of PYOSG in the South-West and North West, Ajibola Ogunmakinwa and Aisha Lawal, also, in separate interviews with journalists, said Osinbajo is the best among all the presidential aspirants. Ogunmakinwa said, “We have that opportunity now and we have that person who has global exposure. As a sound economist and lawyer, his capacity and competence on economic issues under his leadership, with the help of the economic management team of Nigeria, were able to bring the country out of recession way ahead of other countries within two years. “He has been trained to be a befitting president for seven years. He has performed well. Whenever the president is away, we can see the outcome of the country’s economy during that period. These are the attributes we should see to convince us that he has what it takes.” The North West Coordinator of PYOSG said, “Osinbajo is the most qualified among all the presidential aspirants. He has been with the president, and he even served as Acting President. “He has been on the job, learning it prior to this coming election. So, he is very competent. He has travelled round the world to see what it is, how the world is going, and he is an economist and a lawyer. He is a party man.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com