An aspirant contesting for the Peoples Democratic Party ticket for Boluwaduro/Ifedayo/Ila Federal Constituency, Seyi Bamidele, on Sunday, alleged that some delegates were abducted during the primary. Bamidele, who is the current PDP South-West Zonal Youth Leader, also said the primary was marred with anomalies and demanded an immediate response from the state caretaker leadership of the party. According to him, those abducted were delegates in the Ifedayo State Assembly primary held in Oke Ila. “The whole exercise has been marred with anomalies. Some delegates that were to vote in the House of Assembly primary for an aspirant for Ifedayo State Constituency PDP ticket held at ‘Iya ni o se’ Hall, Oke Ila, were abducted. They were later released after the exercise has been completed. “As of 7:20 pm in Ila town hall, Ila-Orangun where primary for Ila Federal Constituency will hold, no material nor officials that would conduct the exercise was at the venue. If people could be abducted during the day, the worst thing may happen under the cover of the night. At the appropriate time, we will take a decision,” he said. Apart from the late arrival of officials and materials, House of Assembly primaries were successfully held in many local government areas in the state. Materials and officials that would conduct the exercise did not arrive until around 3 pm, while dispatch to the venue of the primaries was still on as of 4 pm when our correspondent visited the Osun PDP state Secretariat in Osogbo. Also, in many local government areas, House of Assembly primaries were concluded before 6 pm, but House of Representatives primaries did not commence immediately as earlier planned. In Ede South State Assembly, the incumbent lawmaker representing the constituency, Mr. Niran Atidade, lost his re-election ticket, but his colleague in Ede North, Kofoworola Babajide, won the party’s ticket. In Obokun State Constituency, Adewumi Adeyemi, also an incumbent lawmaker, won the party’s ticket. Efforts to get to the Osun PDP caretaker chairman, Mr. Adekunle Akindele, for clarification and reaction proved futile, as call to his mobile line was not answered and he had yet to respond to text message sent to him by our correspondent as of the time of filing this report. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com