Actors, Odunlade Adekola, Samuel Perry (Broda Shaggi) and Toyin Abraham, have joined other brand ambassadors of popular real estate company, Revolution Plus Property, to celebrate the first as it marks it eighth year anniversary. At a press conference during the week, the brand ambassadors, as well as some consumers, were full of praise for the company. Adekola noted that he was pleased to be associated with the company. On his part, Broda Shaggi stated that he had never had any reason to doubt the company’s integrity. He said, “Our relationship has been awesome. I know many customers that have good testimonies of them.” Toyin Abraham also maintained that she never thought of ditching the company when it was embroiled in a controversy of allegedly selling properties to customers and not giving them the said properties. She said, “I knew they were not scammers. I am an actress and sometimes, controversies and scandals come, but we scale through. Some (scandals) are true, while some are false. There is no company that does go through trying times at one time or the other. If there is no issue, that means they are not doing something right.” The Group Executive Director of the company, Tolulope Onalaja, noted that though there were a lot of challenges in the industry, they were ready to keep adding value and delivering quality service to clients. She also added that the company had gone through two serious crisis periods— 2017 and 2022— and having survived those times, nothing could break the firm. The firm’s Group Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer, Bamidele Onalaja, also reiterated that there will always be challenges as nothing good comes easy. Appreciating staff and customers of the company, he said, “We appreciate everyone who has contributed to making this day possible. This organisation is built on integrity, timely delivery and teamwork. We have grown into a company with over 10 subsidiaries. We have made thousands of people landlords across our eight mega housing projects, and six branches, with an international office in the United States of America.”  All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com