…the biggest cash prize in the event’s history International forex broker, OctaFX again maintained its culture of supporting exploits to reward veteran actor, Odunlade Adekola with a N2 million prize for winning the Best Male Supporting Actor recognition at the Africa Magic Viewers’ Choice Awards (AMVCA) 2022. As a brand that boldly celebrates the mastery of every craft, OctaFX took up the sponsorship of the Best Male Supporting Actor (Movie/TV series) category at the ceremony. Odunlade Adekola went home with the award for his role in ‘Jankariwo’, a Nollywood mystical adventure film. OctaFX’s gesture marks the first time a brand or business is giving a significant amount – N2 million – to an award recipient at the flagship industry event. The global forex broker, through its brand ambassador Tunde Onakoya presented the prize to Adekola. Every year, AMVCA organisers celebrate and commend the work and talent of actors, producers, directors and other film professionals on the continent. True to its nature, OctaFX saw through the value of these efforts to support a category at AMVCA 2022 – the eighth edition – and enhance the overall success of the award night with the N2 million prize.  Beyond the sponsorship, OctaFX also serenaded guests at the event. Guests enjoyed exclusive access to the appealing, experiential Dual Life photo booth set up by the forex broker at the venue. The booth encouraged the guests, particularly Nigerians to take pictures around the Dual Lives they lead in an engaging manner. Built around the ‘Dual Life movie’, guests featured as the main character. The photo booth had two scenes: one represented acting as one life, with the other projecting Forex trading with OctaFX. AMVCA 2022, a revered African film industry event which was held in Lagos, Nigeria, brought together actors, filmmakers and technical professionals from across the continent and the United States’ Hollywood. The event had 31 categories, with the organisers making 12 of the categories open to public voting. OctaFX is a global broker providing online trading services worldwide since 2011. It offers everything one needs to reach their investment goals, providing top-notch conditions utilised already by 7.5 million clients globally. The company is involved in a comprehensive network of charity and humanitarian initiatives, including improvement of educational infrastructure, short-notice relief projects, supporting local communities and small to medium enterprises.