The Kaduna State Governor, Malam Nasir El-Rufai; The President, Dangote Group, and Africa’s richest man, Aliko Dangote; and a former Vice-President, Namadi Sambo, were among those who paid condolence visits to the Kaduna family home of the late Bukar Shettima, who died at the age of 94. Other dignitaries were the Niger State Governor, Abubakar Sani Bello; His Royal Highness, Muhammadu Sanusi II; former governors of Kaduna State, Ahmed Makarfi, and Mukhtar Yero; as well as and the former Governor of Adamawa State, Jibrila Bindo. Others included the Deputy Governor of Kaduna State, Hadiza Balarabe; Chief Executive Officer, Matrix Energy, Abdulkadir Aliu, ACG customs, Sani Nuhu; Senator Uba Sani; Hon. Ashiru Kudan and Alhaji Adamu Attah. The late Shettima was a first-generation indigenous police officer, who served at the Police Force Headquarters in Kano and Kaduna. He retired as a Police Commissioner and Director of the defunct Nigeria Security Organisation, now the Department of State Service. After his retirement, he was called upon to serve as chairman of Magumeri and Kaga local government areas of Borno State. Speaking to newsmen in Kaduna on Sunday, one of the children, Ibrahim Gubio, who is also a retired Police Officer, said that the deceased was an exemplary leader who would be missed for his contributions to the nation and the development of the country. He described him as an outstanding disciplinarian and incorruptible elder statesman. Also, a community leader, Bulama Mali Gubio (mni), described the deceased as a nobleman, a crusader against evil as well as a disciplinarian who was courageous and always stood for justice. The late Bukar Shettima died during the just concluded Muslim Ramadan Fast and left behind 14 children, amongst them is the President /Chief Executive Officer, the Barbedos Group, Alhaji Kashim Shettima. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com