The Executive Secretary of the Nigerian Content Development Board, Engr. Simbi Wabote, has said that the Federal Government plans to reach 20 million homes through the National Gas Expansion Program, which is targeted at increasing the country’s Liquefied Petroleum Gas penetration currently estimated at national average of 13 per cent. According to him, some of the key elements of the NGEP included the domestic LPG expansion, autogas, and power generation. President Muhammadu Buhari had launched the ‘Decade of Gas’ programme in March 2021 to leverage the nation’s huge gas reserves to become not just a major exporter, but a major gas-consuming nation. The ES said the World Gas Conference holding this week in South Korea would see the signing of an agreement to construct the 2nd LPG vessel owned by a local indigenous company to further enhance the supply capability of the LPG across the country. Agreement for the first vessel was signed in 2018 and the vessel was delivered in 2020. “I am pleased to note that agreement for the second vessel is being executed, which is a sign of self-propelled growth for our indigenous companies in the midstream and downstream sectors of the industry.” He said the OB-3 pipeline and the AKK pipeline were under construction to address the gas infrastructure aspects of the gas value chain. “A glimpse of the LPG value chain presents another plethora of opportunities for which the Board has also gone into partnership with some investors to develop different areas of the value chain. “Our touch points in the LPG value chain cover inland LPG production, LPG jetties/terminals, storage facilities, inland transportation, cylinders manufacturing, bottling, and retail”, he said. Wabote listed its partnership investments in the gas value-chain to include: partnership with NEDO Gas Processing Company in Kwale, Delta State for the establishment of 80MMscfd of Gas Processing Plant and a 300MMscfd Kwale Gas Gathering hub, partnership with Triansel Gas Limited in Koko, Delta State for the 5,000MT LPG storage and loading terminal facility, partnership with Brass Fertiliser for the development of a 10,000MT/day methanol plant at Odiama in Brass, partnership with Butane Energy to roll out LPG bottling plants and depots in Abuja and 10 Northern States of Kano, Kaduna, Katsina, Bauchi, Nassarawa, Zamfara, Niger, Plateau, Gombe, and Jigawa states. He said partnership with Amal Technologies was to set up a plant in Abuja for the production of smart gas/smoke detector alarm devices that would monitor and detect smoke and all types of gas leakages, thereby enhancing the safe usage of LPG in homes across the country. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com