Recently, my father discussed a plant called Spathodea campanulata and its effect on cataract with me. He told me that the bud contains a fluid that children usually put in the eyes. The discussion got more interesting when he told me that a scientific study had been carried out on the plant and that he actually helped with the photographic evidence in the study. When he saw my excitement, he linked me up with Dr Omolaja Osoniyi of the Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology at the Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile-Ife, Osun State, who was at the forefront of the study. Dr Osoniyi told me that years ago, he ran into one of the office assistants in the department where he was squirting the fluid from the bud of the flower of Spathodea campanulata into his eyes just like one would put eye drops in the eyes. He asked the office assistant what he was doing and he said he does not buy eye drops that the plant is his own local eye drop. The office assistant also told him that the plant is called “Mojutoro” meaning “something that makes the eyes clear.” He told me that when he returned to his lab, several questions went through his head and he went back to the office assistants to ask if the plant is also used for cataract and he answered in the affirmative. He went on to add that several people corroborated the office assistant’s claim and at the point of collection of the plants, they often met other people collecting the bud of the plant for the same reason. So, this is what led to the scientific study on the plant and the conclusion of the study is that the plant truly possesses anti-cataract activity. At this point, I am so convinced that nature has a cure or something to manage all ailments. Readers seem to like Pistachios. They have been demanding it. This week, I will discuss another non-indigenous nut known as Pecan. They are fruits of the Carya illinoinensis tree and are in the Juglandaceae (walnut) family. The nut is a powerhouse of nutrients. Oil can be extracted from it and it is considered a healthy oil as it is rich in monounsaturated fats and low in saturated fats. The main application of this oil is its use in cooking. It is also used as massage oil and in aromatherapy applications. Like many oils, pecan oil can make a great moisturiser for dry skin. It rejuvenates the skin and prevents wrinkles. Pecans can be made into flour too. It is a low carb-friendly alternative to normal wheat flour. Pecan shell fiber (also known as pecan shell flour or ground pecan shells) is a food ingredient produced from shells of pecans. They are a rich source of various bioactive compounds with potential antioxidant and antimicrobial properties. It provides an additional benefit that several fiber ingredients do not possess due to high polyphenol and proanthocyanidin content which will aid in the preservation of food. In a particular study, rats tolerated high levels of pecan shell fiber, so, the ingredient is said to be safe for consumption by humans as a significant source of fiber. I even stumbled on a study done on the anti-cancer activity of the shell. Let us see some of the benefits Pecan nut lowers bad cholesterol: Pecans are a great source of monounsaturated fatty acids; a type of fat that may benefit heart health. One study in 204 people with coronary artery disease, which is characterised by the narrowing of arteries, found that eating 30 grams of pecans daily for 12 weeks improved the ratio of total cholesterol to HDL (good) cholesterol in the blood. Similarly, an older study in 19 people with normal cholesterol levels found that those eating 68 grams of pecans each day had significantly lower levels of LDL (bad) cholesterol after eight weeks compared with those in a control group who did not eat any nuts. Pecans have been certified as a “Heart-healthy food” by the American Heart Association. Stabilises blood sugar: Some research shows that pecans may promote better blood sugar control which may be partially due to their fiber content. Although nuts contain mainly insoluble fiber that does not dissolve in water, they also contain some soluble fiber. Soluble fiber dissolves in water, forming a gel-like material that moves through your body undigested and slows the absorption of sugar into the blood. One small study in 26 adults with obesity found that eating a pecan-rich diet for four weeks improved the body’s ability to use insulin effectively. Reduces the risk of certain cancer: Pecan nuts protect the human body from cancer due to the anti-proliferative properties of ellagic acid which inhibits DNA binding of certain carcinogens. They contain oleic acid, a fatty acid which has been found to reduce the risk of breast cancer. They also reduce the risk of colon cancer since they help clean the gastrointestinal system. Improves digestion: Anshul Jaibharat, a nutritionist, says, “Since pecan nuts are fiber-packed, they promote colon health and facilitate regular bowel movements. Pecan nuts prevent constipation and reduce the risk of hemorrhoids and colitis by cleaning out the gastrointestinal tract. Promotes brain function: Diets high in vitamin E have been linked with lowering risk of Alzheimer’s disease and dementia up to 25 per cent.  That is because vitamin E and other antioxidants in plant-based foods help reduce oxidative stress caused by inflammation, protecting cells and tissues of vital organs like the brain. .Helps with weight loss .Has anti-ageing potential for the skin .They are important for immunity. .Pecan nut treats osteoporosis .It is anti-inflammatory Scientific study In a study titled, “Aqueous extract from pecan nut [Carya illinoinensis (Wangenh) C. Koch] shell show activity against breast cancer cell line MCF-7 and Ehrlich ascites tumor in Balb-C mice,’’ by Josiane Hilbig et al, the results indicated that pecan nut shell extracts are effective against tumor cells growth and may be considered as an alternative to the treatment of cancer. In a study titled, “A Pecan-rich diet improves cardiometabolic risk factors in overweight and obese adults: A randomised controlled trial,’’ by Diane L. McKay et al, compared to the control diet, the pecan intervention had a concurrent and clinically significant effect on several relevant markers of cardiometabolic risk. In a study titled, “Hepatoprotective effects of pecan nut shells on ethanol-induced liver damage,’’ by Liz Girardi Müller et al, the conclusion is that pecan shells may be an economic agent to treat liver diseases related to ethanol consumption. Pecans can be eaten raw and roasted. Try sprinkling a handful of these tasty nuts onto your next yoghurt parfait, salad or oatmeal for extra crunch and nutrients. You can also mix or chop up into your baked goods. If you are able to see pecans that are still in their shells, then, do not forget that the shells are a good source of fiber. Just grind them to incorporate into your diet. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com