The House of Representatives has made a U-turn on its indefinite resumption over renovation of the National Assembly Complex. The House will hold plenary on Wednesday to consider and pass three bills on corruption and terrorism, according to a statement issued on Sunday by the Clerk to the House, Dr Yahaya Danzaria. Danzaria said, “I am directed to inform all honourable members, legislative staff, media and the general public that the House will hold plenary on Wednesday, May 4, 2022, by 11am. “This is intended to facilitate the passage of three bills which are of urgent importance and will equally enable Nigeria to meet some international deadlines and obligations. The bills include Proceeds of Crime Bill, Money Laundering Prohibition (Amendment) Bill 2011 (and) Terrorism Prevention Act.” The President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), had recently forwarded to the National Assembly, revised versions of the Money Laundering Bill and Terrorism Prevention Bill. The Senate President, Ahmad Lawan, and Deputy Speaker of the House of Representatives, Ahmed Wase, who presided over the chamber’s respective sessions on April 14, 2022, read the cover letter accompanying the executive bills. Buhari had in the letter dated April 12, 2022, noted that the Ministry of Justice, which is supervised by the Minister of Justice and Attorney-General of the Federation, Abubakar Malami (SAN), had made corrections to some of the proposals in the previous versions. The president explained that the deficiencies in the country’s Anti-Money Laundering/Combating the Financing of Terrorism called for the passage of the bills. Buhari warned that the non-passage of the bills would pose a risk that might lead to the eventual blacklisting of Nigeria by the Financial Action Task Force. The Clerk had on April 25, 2022, on the eve of resumption from Easter break, announced that the House had postponed its resumption indefinitely due to the renovation of the National Assembly Complex. Danzaria made the announcement via a statement issued on Monday which was published on all the verified social media platforms of the chamber.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com