Kayode Farinto, the chief executive officer and managing director of Wealthy Honey Nigeria Limited, speaks with Anozie Egole on the challenges affecting the sector and the way forward In your last statement, you said that the Association of Nigerian Licensed Customs Agents would write to the National Assembly regarding the 15 per cent National Automotive Council levy. What is the update on that? We were at the National Assembly on Wednesday. You know the new governing board of the Council for the Regulation of Freight Forwarding in Nigeria was inaugurated on Wednesday and the first thing I raised was the issue of levy. Thank God the Nigeria Customs Service was also represented and you know a whole lot of people were represented. So that was the first assignment CRFFN did and we are also taking the issue to the Ministry of Finance. So, we are putting the issue on the front burner, and we have submitted the letter. What is the update on the reintroduction of the Vehicles Identification Number by the Nigeria Customs Service? I called them and they said that the issue of ‘accidented’ vehicles has been factored into the new VIN valuation. The only thing is that the procedure for clearance will now be through the non-standard chassis, which are vehicles that do not conform to VIN. These are vehicles that come from Asia and Europe and they do not conform with VIN. If your chassis number conforms with VIN, that means you are having 17 digits. Some categories of vehicles that are from Asia are normally 20 or 22 digits. At times, some are not even up to 17. So, for those ones, the clearance will now follow non-standard chassis procedures. What are the procedures for clearing vehicles using the non-standard chassis? The procedures for that one is that you will put up a letter to the area comptroller where the vehicle is domiciled, telling him about the precise vehicle. The comptroller will take it to valuation and the valuation will minute to the deputy comptroller in charge of valuation to ascertain the year of the vehicle. It will be taken back to valuation before they give you value to pay. Once they have given you value to pay, you will input it in the VIN system, showing that it is the non-standard chassis. The system will accept the valuation and documents will be scanned before other procedures. So many people are kicking against the return of the Standards Organisation of Nigeria to the ports. What do you have to say about that? Everybody is entitled to their own opinions. I am looking at a situation where, after you have obtained your own Standards Organisation of Nigeria Conformity Assessment Programme, go through examination and succeed in clearing the consignment from the ports, SON does not subject the consignment to interceptions at different points. In most cases, they erroneously take your truck, particularly on weekends, to their warehouses. And when you have got all these necessary documents by Monday, they would say it was a mistake. Look at the delays and the demurrages being paid. The container will be on the truck and the trucker will charge you for those weekends that the container was on the truck. If all these things are impediments to trade, why don’t we bring them back to the seaports? They are part of the examination, and they are the ones that will issue the SONCAP. That means the moment the container leaves the ports, no SON official will intercept it. This interception of cargoes when it has already been exited from the ports kills trade, gives us bad name, and makes us look disorganised. So, what I am saying is that anything they want to do should be done at the ports, or they should be added to the portal of the Nigerian Customs Service where they would be part of the examination process. If they have any issue to raise when an examination is being conducted, all the SON official needs to do is to make an input. All those troubles will be at the ports, not after examination. It is not right when you have done the needful, pay the examination fee and someone who was not part of the examination intercepts the same cargo just a few meters away from the port.  That was why I said, in view of these things, let them be part of it. We have not got to the level where we can remove some of these regulatory agencies from the ports. Look at the high rate of tramadol importation into our seaports. If the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency is not returned to the ports, its officials would also be intercepting containers on the roads. Stakeholders say that SON needs to upgrade its automation process. Do you agree with that? Well, if you are talking about that, yes, it is possible. They were even worse than this until we shouted at them. SON was stuck with manual procedures until we asked why they did not want to automate their systems and, with that, they started automation last year. We have seen that they are improving on their automation and the director-general of SON also told us his challenges. He told us that money was not available, asking anyone with the right contacts to plead with the president to increase SON’s budget. So, if you want to increase automation, you need money and these are the things the Federal Government should do that is still left undone. Some unscrupulous importers leverage on these lapses to bring in goods that are not up to standards. If you ask these people out of the ports, how then do we have rest of mind? The Ministry of Transport has warned that terminal operators will be sanctioned for not helping the CRFFN in collecting the Practitioners Operating Fee. What is your view on this? I told them after our inauguration that POF is not the main issue. Our members are crying on the issue of the 15 per cent NAC levy. CRFFN must be seen to be fighting for their course, which is the only way you can be justified.  I don’t have anything to say if they want to sanction them. They can do that, but do not forget that the importers or the agents too can take terminal operators to court on this issue. The CRFFN should do the needful by protecting the agents and advocating their cause. This issue of 15 per cent NAC is a big problem for the industry. I am predicting that in the next one or two weeks, people will be abandoning their vehicles at the seaports. The level of importation of vehicles has reduced. In the next one or two quarters, the Nigerian economy will enter recession with the way we are going about it. Our policymakers are not serious about the economy of the country. We need masses-oriented policies; we should be mindful of the way we churn out policies all in the name that the Federal Government wants to generate revenue You said something about clearing agents having the right to take terminal operators to court over POF. Are you saying that the fee is illegal? I am not saying it is illegal because it has been gazetted and anything that has been gazetted is a law. But somebody will now tell you that you cannot refuse to deliver his consignment to him because he didn’t pay POF. Anybody can go to court on the basis that the issue of POF should be between the importer and CRFFN. That does not mean you won’t deliver the cargo because the contract of affreightment is to bring the cargo to the port. The role of the terminal operators in the contract is to deliver the cargo after payment of charges. So, it is a very controversial issue and that is why we have to be careful. But the moment the importers see that they are protected, that the CRFFN is coming out on how to solve the issue of the levy, paying the POF will not be a difficult issue because they will know that is it a value-added service. As a governing council member of CRFFN, what plans do you have to ensure total compliance on the payment of POF? The first step is solving the bottlenecks militating against cargo clearance. What I told them immediately after our inauguration is that if all these things have been done, collecting POF will be a very easy thing for the council. But when there are issues militating against us, the council that is supposed to regulate the freight forwarding industry would be sitting, looking the other way. Talking about POF, people will start to ask questions. It’s a two-way thing, protect me and collect your POF. What can you tell us about vehicles that are trapped at various seaports in Nigeria? Yes, people are waiting for the Federal Government to review this issue of the 15 per cent NAC levy on used vehicles. For the vehicles that are already at the ports, what happens to the demurrages? Are you engaging the terminal operators? The storages and terminal charges are going up. So, as a result of that, about 40 per cent major vehicle importers have told their shippers abroad not to ship the next consignment to Nigeria. And that is how that stuff will have a spiral effect. The moment it continues within one or two weeks, then we are done. I am predicting that if this thing is allowed to spill over to the next quarter, the Nigerian economy will go into recession before the end of this year. We are not new in this business and we have seen the way it is going and the spiral effect of this. We are also getting information on the way importers are stopping the importation of their vehicles abroad. It is also going to have an adverse effect on the way people smuggle these vehicles through unapproved routes and you know the effect of that. You are exposing our Customs officers who work at the borders to unnecessary risks. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com