Stakeholders of the Abia North Senatorial zone have called for the implementation of an alleged agreement they entered with elders and traditional rulers of Ukwa Ngwa land to support power shift to Abia North come 2023. This reminder came during the consultative visit of a governorship aspirant and Deputy Governor of Abia State, Sir Ude Oko Chukwu,with PDP delegates in Umunneochi, Isuikwuato and Bende Council areas following the agitation over which zone produces the next governor of Abia State in 2023. Led by a former Commissioner of Housing, James Okpara, the zone explained that no Ukwa Ngwa elder or monarch has denied the agreement they made with the people of Abia North and tasked them to ensure that the agreement to rotate power to Abia North is implemented as 2023 approaches. Okpara said that the elders and traditional rulers of Ukwa Ngwa had meet with their Abia North on March 5, 2019, at Uturu in Isuikwuato council area, “where they pleaded for the people North of Abia to support Governor Okezie Ikpeazu’s re-election in 2019 while Abia North will be supported to produce Ikpeazu’s successor in 2023”. According to him, one of the Ukwa Ngwa elders, Dr. Gershon Amuta, has recently acknowledged that there was an agreement between the Ukwa Ngwa elders and their Abia North counterparts. “A meeting took place on March 5, 2019. The elders of Ukwa Ngwa land met us at the residence of Prof. Gregory Ibe in Uturu, Isuikwuato LGA. “They came with drinks and kola nuts, pleading with the elders of Abia North to support the re-election of Governor Okezie Ikpeazu in 2019 while they will reciprocate by supporting a power shift to Abia North in 2023. “We ate and drank together and reached an agreement. In Igbo land, when you have a meeting of such nature, you have entered into a covenant. Ukwa Ngwa elders who were present in that meeting included Dr. Emmanuel Adaelu, Senator Adolphus Wabara, Chief Allen Nwachukwu, Chief Theo Nkire, Dr. Gershon Amuta, G.I. Akara, Alozie Agbara, Barr.Chiji Nkaru and others. “Those from Abia North were Sen. Emma Nwaka, Chief Ukpai Agwu Ukpai, Chief Mba Ukariwo, Prof.S.O. Igwe, Prof Ihechukwu Madubuike, Ndidi Okereke, Paul Mba, Donatus Okorie, Chief Jerry Kalu, K.K. Owen , Prof. Greg Ibe and others. “There were also monarchs from the two sides; Eze Eberechi Dick, Eze Ezo Ukandu,Eze Kalu Ogbu, Eze Linus Mba and Eze Nwankwo. “Out of the people who made the agreement, only Chief Allen Nwachukwu , Chief Ukpai Agwu Ukpai and one other have died. Others are alive. Nobody from Ukwa Ngwa has denied the agreement. “In fact, Dr. Gershon Amuta recently acknowledged that there was an agreement. So, we are pleading with our Ukwa Ngwa brothers to honour the agreement and support the power shift to Abia North.” Earlier, Chukwu, stated that having served as a Speaker and now, Deputy Governor, that he has acquired the requisite experience to take the state to greater heights. He also asked the party delegates to support his ambition and promised to prioritise the welfare of the people of the state as well as PDP faithful, if voted into power. The deputy governor said, “We need to elect a Governor who knows the party. I have been in the party business for 19 years and I’m best positioned to improve the welfare of party people because I’m a party man. “I have served the party well. I have experience to turn things around. So, we must be careful who we vote for as delegates. It is beyond the issue of ‘he is my brother’ or ‘he is from my place’”, he said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com