The Inter-Party Advisory Council has challenged the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (Retd.), to rise above the low level of partisan politics to ensure a free and fair election in the forthcoming 2023 elections. The IPAC made this appeal in a goodwill message by its National Chairman, Yabagi Sani, to Muslims on the occasion of the Eid-Fitri celebrations. The IPAC chairman noted that during this political transitional period, the council cannot but seize on this special occasion to make a very strident appeal to all key players and stakeholders in the nation’s democracy project to close ranks and work assiduously toward the unfettered success of the forthcoming elections. Sanni said, “IPAC is emphatically calling on President Muhammadu Buhari to strive to rise above the low level of partisan politics, be alive to his historic obligations to democracy, future generations of Nigerians and the exigencies of peace, tranquillity, and prosperity of the moment. “As we have told him at every turn, history beckons on President Buhari with the very minimal demand on him, to oversee credible, transparent, free, and fair elections leading to a rancour-free and smooth transition in 2023.” The council also advised that all electoral bodies remain undefeated and focused on handling electoral processes. He added, ” In the same vein, IPAC will want to seize on this auspicious occasion to advise the national electoral umpire, the National Independent Electoral Commission, to remain undeterred and focussed in its handling of the electoral process in which so far, it has performed commendably well. ” This is just as IPAC is asking the security agencies, the judiciary, and the other relevant institutions and NGOs among others, to be awake to their roles in the electoral process. “Finally, IPAC wishes to remind members of the platform, the leadership, and members of all the registered political parties that, they have the greatest stakes in the fortunes or otherwise, of democracy more than any other groups or interests in the country. “It is, therefore, imperative for the political gladiators to do all within them to play according to the rules and regulations of the game. We must be above the unbridled and potentially dangerous pursuit of our parochial political goals in the superior interest of the nation and the democracy project which confers on us the legitimacy and relevance we are presently savouring.” The IPAC added that it wished “all members of the Muslim community in our beloved country, a happy and blissful celebration of Eid El Fitr which is the marking of the end of the thirty days of fasting, abstinence, devotion and spiritual rebirth in the Holy month of Ramadan.” Sanni further said, “While we hope, as we earnestly pray that, the spectacularly radiant rays of divine blessings and grace of the Almighty God inherent in the grand month, will envelop and permeate through every facet of our national life, we are also full of prayers that, all the prayers and supplications by individuals for themselves, their loved ones and the country in general, have been accepted and granted by the One and only One Most Exalted and Most Merciful Creator of all that exists on earth and in the heavens. “May some of the fallouts of the special divine season imply a turning point in the fortunes of our now beleaguered fatherland, the restoration of peace, love, and amity among the divergent components and communities. “May we begin to experience a reprieve and a shift away from the dark shadows of the harbingers of insecurity, fear, death, and destruction that have been inflicting pain, poverty, and despondency in the lives of the majority of citizens in recent times.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com