Lorient striker, Terem Moffi, is set to step into Victor Osimhen’s boots and lead Nigeria’s attack in an international friendly against Mexico, PUNCH Sports Extra reports. New coach Jose Peseiro – who will be without 12 invited players for the game – is expected to give Lorient striker the first-choice nod ahead of hopefuls like Victor Mbaoma and Ishaq Rafiu. Moffi, who scored eight Ligue 1 goals last season, became the favourite to fill in the void after Almeria’s striker Sadiq Umar pulled out of the game due to club engagements. Other players who pulled out of the games are Emmanuel Dennis, Ahmed Musa, Samuel Chukwueze, Samson Tijani, Sadiq Umar, Maduka Okoye, Zaidu Sanusi and Abdullahi Shehu, Oghenekaro Etebo, Azubuike Okechukwu and Alhassan Yusuf. The 22-year-old who scored eight times in the Ligue 1 season will be making his third appearance for the three-time African champions. He is expected to be flanked by Nantes forward Moses Simon and Alex Iwobi. Meanwhile, Peseiro has expressed optimism about starting on a bright note with the Eagles despite the several withdrawals from the squad for the games. “You have to be practical and face the challenges when they come this way or any other way. We would have loved to have everyone here and see how well they have put the World Cup miss behind them and forged on. “But what we have is what we have. I have chosen to be positive and I have resolved to work hard to use the resources available to make Nigeria great again. “I am happy we have such an excellent pool of players who are committed and ready to give their all every time. This situation was not something they created; challenges do turn up that way. We have a number of options who have been told to rise up to the occasion. “Every player who gets the chance to wear the Nigeria jersey should be proud of that opportunity and give their all.” Three –time African champions Nigeria are up against the Senior National Teams of Mexico and Ecuador in Dallas (State of Texas) and Harrison (New Jersey) respectively. It is the team’s first gathering and run-out since narrowly missing a ticket to the FIFA World finals in Qatar at the end of March. The Eagles will battle Mexico’s El Tri, perennial CONCACAF champions, at the AT&T Stadium situated at the AT&T Way in Arlington on Saturday, 28th May, as from 7pm Texas time (1am, Sunday 29th May in Nigeria).  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com