An Abuja-based human rights lawyer, Pelumi Olajengbesi, has condemned the promotion of former acting Chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, Ibrahim Magu, to the rank of an Assistant Inspector-General of Police. The lawyer said the development was a spit on all Nigerians and another testament that the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), has been insincere with his so-called anti-corruption fight. The PUNCH had earlier reported that the Police Service Commission had concluded plans to promote Magu, a Commissioner of Police, to the rank of AIG before his retirement on May 5, 2022. The decision to promote Magu, the most senior Commissioner of Police, followed the recommendation of the Inspector-General of Police, Usman Baba. Magu’s ordeal began in July 2020 when he was suspended from office as acting EFCC chairman by the President over allegations by the Attorney General of the Federation, Abubakar Malami (SAN), against him and he consequently appeared before a presidential panel headed by retired Justice Ayo Salami set up to probe him for alleged graft and insubordination. The PSC had last July declined to promote Magu during the promotion of 24 CPs and other officers but the commission recently recommended the embattled ex-EFCC boss for elevation ahead of his retirement. Reacting, Olajengbesi said, “It is apparent that the regime of President Muhammadu Buhari is chasing shadows and insincere with the so-called fight against corruption. “The promotion of Magu to the rank of AIG is a spit on the faces of Nigerians and another confirmation that the Buhari administration did not fight corruption but has entrenched it into our institutions. “The same was witnessed last month when the President endorsed the pardon of former governors of Plateau State, Joshua Dariye; and Taraba State, Jolly Nyame; as well as 157 other convicts. These were people who was jailed having found guilty to have stolen billions of public funds. “The moves to compensate allegedly corrupt persons with promotions and pardons is condemnable and would encourage further despoilation of values and crimes. The President must stop this infamous trend within his government.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com