Fourty-seven days after terrorists attacked the Abuja-Kaduna train, the joint National Assembly Committee on Land Transport has begged the Chinese government to help the Nigerian government rescue victims who are still held hostage. The Chairman, Senate Committee on Land and Transport, Abdulfatai Buhari, made the plea on Wednesday when he led the committee on an oversight visit at the Obafemi Awolowo rail station, Ibadan, Oyo State. He said that instead of the service bringing joy to the citizens, it had been a source of sorrow to many Nigerians. Buhari noted that it was disheartening that 47 days after the terror attack, 62 persons were still held hostage. “In as much as Nigerians are pleased with the train, it has become the source of sadness today instead of the services and happiness for us. Today is exactly 47days that our brothers are captive.” According to him, “Yesterday, the families of the victims met with the Governor of Kaduna State, Nasiru El-Rufai, and then the accusations were against those of us in the National Assembly and against your government. The accusation was that we, lawmakers, are not doing anything to rescue the victims. Nigerians are not taking it lightly. The Chinese government makes money from the many rail projects that are being handled by the China Civil Engineering Construction Company here in Nigeria, so asking them to help us is not out of place.” He said it was not all about the standard gauge rail system but the security and safety of passengers. “It is not about having a standard gauge and all that. That this is not what we are interested in now. Nigerians are no longer ready to listen to the number of passengers that has been carried by the trains since they were commissioned. We want their services, but the security and the lives of those people involved are very important to us.” He, however, stressed the need for the company to install some security gadgets like the Wifi for easy communication while using the train. Earlier, the Deputy Managing Director of CCECC, Xia Lijun, had urged the Joint National Assembly Committee to look into power supply issues and access road issues affecting most of the train stations. “Most of our train stations don’t have good access roads. Again, the issue of power supply is a problem. Without us getting connected to the power supply from the national grid, getting signals and communications up and running is difficult.” Also speaking, the Managing Director of the Nigerian Railway Corporation, Freedom Okhiria, said that the agency was increasing policing of the services. Okhiria, who was represented at the event by the Director of Operations, Niyi Alli, said that the agency was doing everything possible to ensure the security of passengers. “However, also on the existing lines, we are doing the same thing. We are increasing technology; we are increasing policing. We are using some things that I can’t really talk about on camera. “But what I want to say is that the agency is doing everything possible within its power and with other sister agencies to ensure the security of our passengers on board,” he concluded.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com