A chieftain of the All Progressives Congress in Ondo State, Abiola Oshodi, has called on the state governor, Rotimi Akeredolu, to wade into the internal crisis going on in the party ahead the forthcoming primary. Oshodi, who is a House of Representative aspirant in the Owo/Ose Federal Constituency of the state, alleged that some party members hijacked the delegates’ list in the constituency and thereby removed some names of delegates from the list of those that would vote at the primaries. This was contained in a statement issued on Thursday by the Director of Dr Abiola Oshodi Campaign Council, Aliyu Taye. According to the statement, those removed from the list all comprised supporters of Oshodi in the Owo and Ose Local Government Areas of the state . The statement read, “The elected delegates are supposed to complement the statutory delegates in the forthcoming primary election for the House of Representatives taking place on May 24, 2022. “To our greatest surprise, party members who thronged the venues of the congress in the Owo/Ose Federal Constituency were disappointed as the election was not held. “This, to us, is against the dictates of the National Leadership of our great party, the All Progressives Congress. “Further investigation revealed that, particularly, our main opponent in the forthcoming primary election has fraudulently hijacked the entire processes. We further got briefed that their camp is now writing the lists in their hideouts. This action in indicative that under a normal democratic process, they are aware they will lose the election.” The statement also urged the governor, Akeredolu, and the state chairman of the party, Ade Adetimehin, and other leaders of the party to look into the matter and correct the anomalies in order not to cause full blown crisis in the party. “The Leader of the party and the governor of the state, Arakurin Olawarotimi Akeredolu, had repeatedly assure party members of level playing field; such is required at the Owo/Ose Federal Constituency at the moment, and we are calling on our governor, whom we know is a democrat, and the national leadership of the party, to call to order all unscrupulous elements working against the party through monopolisation of the processes of the conduct of the congress in the Owo/Ose Federal Constituency .” Reacting, the state chairman of the APC, Ade Adetimehin, said all issues concerning the conduct of the primaries would be resolved amicably. “There is no crisis in our party, though we have complaints here and there, I assure you that we will address all issues amicably. We are brothers and sisters in Ondo APC, we can’t have crisis.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com