The Governor of Bauchi State, Bala Mohammed, said he would support whoever emerged as candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party for the 2023 presidency, provided that the individual was better than he. Mohammed made this disclosure in Gombe shortly after meeting the PDP delegates at the state secretariat, where he told journalists that his experience and disposition to issues were better than anyone else’s. According to him, he had metamorphosed from being a roving journalist to permanent secretary, editor, senator, minister, and governor, stressing that he had the magic wand to solving Nigeria’s challenges. Mohammed said, “I’m a democrat. I have exceeded my personal expectations. I was just like you scooping for news some few years ago. In my life, I have become permanent secretary, editor. So, whoever emerges other than myself, who knows how to do it, I will bring my knowledge and contribution to him so that he will succeed. I will support whoever emerges.” Commenting further, the Governor said he would unite the country, saying that the doctrine of dialogue would be ensured. “I’m someone tutored by destiny, put by God through all the mills of leadership as a civil servant to the position of director at the federal level, to legislature in the Senate, to the Federal Executive Council, and now at the sub-national level as a governor; who understands the challenges, as a technocrat, I will bring my experience to bear because I have been tested and trusted. “I will unify the country, I will bring glory and dignity to Nigeria, (because) we have lost our place in the comity of Nations. I will bring policies that will create wealth. I will look inward rather than outward. “I will do this with global best practices. I will do it with Nigerians from all walks of life. My leadership will be based on justice and equity. I will restructure the country, reinvent, reconstruct the country. Some of the things on the Exclusive list, I will delegate them. I will improve quality of lives of Nigerians and leave legacies (behind),” Mohammed said. Commenting on his political will to effect changes, Mohammed added, “It will be based on dialogue; some of the issues of trust and suspicion will be discussed.” On his part, Gombe State PDP chairman, Maj. Gen. Amnon Kwaskebe (retd.), said the Bauchi State Governor was qualified for the post of president. He said, “You have left your marks in the sands of time (during) your tenure as minister of the Federal Capital Territory. We need your part in the doctrine of necessity. “I want to assure you that your dream will come true because you are a successful man. We will give you maximum support. Your coming here has confirmed to the people that will support you. You are already there; we will use everything within our disposal to achieve this. People of Gombe are with you 100 per cent.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com