Governor of Sokoto State, Aminu Tambuwal, has said that if elected as President in 2023, he would ensure protection of lives and property, adding that as a sitting governor he has extended all manner of support to security agencies for it is a smooth operation. The former Speaker of the House of Representatives said this on Monday night at the Peoples Democratic Party secretariat in Gombe, while convincing delegates that a vote for him would mean peace, development and progress. He said, “I have provided all that needed to be provided for security agencies. So far, I have provided over 500 vehicles for the security agencies. “Whatever support they require, we give them. Under my leadership (as president), I will do all that it takes to support security services in the states.” He added, “I can’t deploy a recruit in the Nigeria Police Force. A governor can not procure arms, or deploy technologies. We have constraints that are why some of the issues.” Tambuwal revealed that as one who has traversed various communities in Nigeria, he has the magic wand to turn things around for the better. “Poverty is all over and it is ravaging our land; we have the men, women, youth, we have the human resource and in Gombe we have the natural resources in abundance in Gombe State. Why are we wasting time to explore the oil that we have in Gombe and so many resources that we have underneath? Why are we not utilising the Dadin-Kowa dam that can generate hydro-electricity,” Tambuwal said. On his part, Gombe State chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party Maj. Gen. Amnon Kwaskebe (retd.), promised the support of delegates, adding that Tambuwal has shown exemplary leadership over the years. Kwaskebe stated that the chairman of PDP Governors’ Forum would emerge victorious. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com