Kwara state House of Assembly on Wednesday declared the seat of Ndamusa Guyegi, representing Edu constituency of the state, vacant following his defection to the Social Democratic Party. The suspension of Ndamusa from the state assembly was sequel to a letter forwarded to the Speaker of the Assembly that he had defected from the All Progressives Congress to the Social Democratic Party as a result of prolonged division and factionalisation of the APC in the state. Ndamusa was the second member in the 24-member Assembly dominated by the APC to defect from the party. Hon Saheed Popoola representing Ojomu Balogun Constituency in Offa local government was the first to defect following the crisis between the state governor, Abdulrahman Abdulrazaq and the Minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed, which led to two factions within the party in the state. However, the majority of the Minister’s faction had defected to the Social Democratic Party in the state. Three members of the Assembly: Hon.AdetibaOlanrewaju representing Oke-Ero state constituency, Hon. Magaji representing Olawoyin (Ilorin Central), and Hon. Ganiyu Salau representing Omupo constituency contributed to the debate on the letter. The Speaker, Rt Hon Yakubu Danladi-Salihu said there was no division or faction within the ruling All Progressive Congress from the National to the ward level that could warrant Hon. Ndamusa to defect to another political party having been elected on the platform of All the Progressive Congress. He added, “Hon. Ndamusa has breached section 109(g) of the 1999 Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria (as amended) by vacating his seat and therefore declared the Edu State Constituency seat in the Assembly vacant.” The Speaker, therefore, directed the Clerk to the House to communicate the development to the Resident Electoral Commissioner of the Independent National Electoral Commission in Kwara State accordingly. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com