The Anambra State Governor, Prof Chukwuma Soludo, on Wednesday declared a state of emergency on roads, insecurity, and other critical infrastructures in the state. He assured the people that his plans to make the state habitable and an industrialised hub would require the cooperation and sacrifice of everybody. The governor stated this in Awka during a town hall meeting of traditional rulers, presidents-general, women presidents-general, community youth leaders, and other stakeholders across the state. He said the exercise was put together to enable the state government to interact and interface with the various stakeholders to front a state’s common good. The governor frowned at the increasing rate of insecurity in the state and admonished the people to report anyone with a questionable character living among them, adding that the people causing pain live within the communities. He also assured of continued consolidation of projects of his predecessor despite the paucity of funds. He said, “Today marks 49 days we assumed office. This is the second time we have called this meeting to keep you abreast of our commitment to transforming the state. We will call you again in 100 days. “Our first duty is to resurrect Onitsha. Onitsha must rise. Onitsha, being the Obi of Ndigbo. Almost all gutters in the city are all filled up. Distilling of Sakamori has commenced. All houses blocking the river must come down. “The presence of touts has pursued many businessmen away from the town. It is difficult to find where to park to do shopping. But we assure you that shopping in Onitsha will become a pleasurable experience soon.” While announcing the recruitment of teachers and health workers to make up for workforce deficits in the state schools and hospitals, Soludo also promised to increase the “N20m community choose your project initiative” of the immediate past administration to N25m. He also said there would not be further appointments, pointing out that funds at his disposal could not afford such. “Every government policy must go down to the grassroots. Repairing Anambra will start from the communities, towns, and villages. “We will partner with those with private farms to assist us in producing enough palm oil and coconuts we can consume and export,” he added. On security, Soludo called for assistance from youths of various communities on intelligence gathering, assuring them that their identity would be treated with the utmost confidentiality. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com