Samuel Chukwueze is enjoying a fine season with Spanish club Villarreal after making the LaLiga Team of The Week for a record third time this season, PUNCH Sports Extra reports. The Nigeria international was once again named following his impressive display in Villarreal’s 1-1 draw against Sevilla at the Estadio de la Ceramica on Sunday. Football facts and statistics website, whoscored.com, published the Team of the Week on their Twitter handle on Monday. The 22-year-old winger, who has been the Yellow Submarines’ shining star in recent weeks, was the only player from Villarreal that was named on the list. In the Team of the Week, Chukwueze, who had a rating of 8.2, was featured on the right side of midfield. The Super Eagles winger registered a joint game-high three shots with one on target in 82 minutes of action and made a joint game-high two tackles while winning one foul for his team. The 2015 U-17 World Cup winner was exceptional for Villarreal on match-day 35 of the season, registering a game-high 10 successful dribbles, six more than the entire Sevilla team combined. Chukwueze was accurate in 70 per cent of his passes and registered 47 touches. His impressive display was enough to earn him a place on the weekly list, alongside 10 other players. Chukwueze’s recognition on Monday is the third time the winger will be nominated for the Team of the Week award this season. His first recognition was January 4, following an outstanding display for Unai Emery’s side in their 5-0 hammering of Levante on match-day 19. The Nigerian had two assists to crown his performance. He was once again included in the LaLiga Team of The Week on May 3, despite Villarreal’s away defeat to Alaves. Chukwueze scored his side’s only goal in the encounter and his third league goal for the season, ending his 12 games without a goal in the league. It is a personal landmark for the Nigerian, who had never featured in the Team of The Week such a number of times in a single season. So far, he has scored seven goals with three assists in 34 games in all competitions.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com