The Special Assistant to governor Ifeanyi Okowa on youths development, Mr. Buchi Omenogor has urged youths to be mindful of the companies they keep and avoid shortcuts to success which, according to him, leads to destruction. Omenogor gave the advice on Tuesday while distributing equipment worth millions of Naira to the people of Amai community, in Ukwuani Local Government Area of Delta State. He said, “Youths are the bedrock of every nation, therefore, I urge you to be mindful of the companies you keep, programmes you involve yourself and actions you take, to enable you to become better leaders of tomorrow. “I decided to embark on the project to enable me to create jobs and job opportunities for the people. The idea is also to support the State Governor, who has created jobs that removed many youths from the streets.” While appealing to the beneficiaries to put the equipment into good use, he said another reason for the empowerment was to enable the youths to be self-dependent and equally contribute to local, State and national development. He said the major things that gave him joy was seeing youths that would be fruitful to their nation, calling on youths to anchor their lives to God. Omenogor had equally distributed writing materials worth thousands of Naira to schools; Alegbor primary school, Keystone international nursery, primary and secondary schools at Effurun, among others. Some of the equipments presented to the beneficiaries include sewing machines, motorcycles, hair dryers, grinding machines and others. Speaking on behalf of the beneficiaries, Oji Destiny, Ikogwe Nkechi, Otunuya Abigail, Etiyemonu Ijeoma, and others applauded the kind gesture of the donor and assured that the equipment would be adequately put to use. They described Omenogor as a philanthropist that has borrowed a leaf from his father, Ambassador Dele Omenogor, saying that Buchi is a replica of his father. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com