This is supposed to be a very simple exercise. Indeed, a revision as far as some of the concepts we have treated in this class are concerned. So, quickly identify the missing word in: I was in United Kingdom last week. Well, let me deepen the challenge by giving you two more clauses in which the same element is missing: I served the company diligently when I was in United States. We visited River Nile when we travelled to Egypt. Can you now identify the missing word based on the pattern of the clauses or sentences? You should be able to – unless you are used to making the mistake inherent in them. Anyway, the missing word is article ‘the’. In the English Language, we have three articles – a, an and the. You should know the primary use of each, with the first two often preceding nouns and other elements whose identities are unknown to the reader or listener, while ‘the’ indicates that the writer and the reader (or speaker and listener) already know the object being referred to. But beyond being used in such a definite circumstance (‘a’ and ‘an’ are indefinite articles), ‘the’ is used  with countries that have states, kingdom and republic in their names. That is why we have the United Kingdom, the United States, the United Arab Emirates, the Republic of Benin, the Central African Republic and the Czech Republic. You should normally not leave out the definite article especially in the context under consideration. In other words, the term missing in the given clauses is ‘the’: I was in United Kingdom last week. (Wrong) I was in the United Kingdom last week. (Wrong) I was in UK last week. (Wrong) I was in the UK last week. (Correct) I served the company diligently when I was in United States. (Wrong) I served the company diligently when I was in the United States. I served the company diligently when I was in US. (Wrong) I served the company diligently when I was in the US. (Correct) The other statement about visiting ‘River Nile’ is also faulty due to the absence of the same ‘the’. The reason is that proper nouns such as rivers and mountains also attract the article, especially such geographical entities with plural names. These include the Pacific Islands, the Great Lakes and the Smoky Mountains: I saw a river when we visited Egypt. (Correct, just a river, not a particular one.) I saw River Nile when we visited Egypt. (Wrong) I saw the River Nile when we visited Egypt. (Correct) Is it true that Mungo Park discovered River Niger? (Wrong) Is it true that Mungo Park discovered the River Niger? (Correct). They have interest in Great Lakes. (Wrong) They have interest in the Great Lakes. Lastly, don’t forget that ‘the’ is required when using ‘late’ to refer to a dead person: Former Governor of Oyo State, late Abiola Ajimobi, was honoured at the event. (Wrong) Former Governor of Oyo State, the late Abiola Ajimobi, was honoured at the event. (Correct). Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com