The Anambra North Senatorial District primary election of the All Progressives Grand Alliance had been postponed as a large number of thugs invaded the Anambra East Local Government Area in Otuocha, the venue of the election. The thugs also took over the vicinity around the area and held some party officials hostage. Anambra North is the constituency of the former First Lady of the state, Mrs Ebele Obiano. While some members of the party blamed Mrs Obiano for the fracas, other party members blamed a certain House of Representatives member for causing the disruption. The ruling party accused the opposition parties in the state of importing the thugs and plotting to ensure that APGA does not field any candidate in the coming general election. Delegates who had arrived at the venue for the primary election could not go in and the Committee charged with the responsibility of conducting the primary election were still in Awka, Anambra State capital, when information got to them that the security situation in the area had worsened. It took the intervention of the Otuocha Divisional Police Officer, who deployed officers and men to major flash points in the area and took on the thugs and recovered arms, machetes and other dangerous weapons. It was gathered that the election would likely take place some day next week as the Monday sit-at-home may not be proper for the conduct of the election. Also, APGA members and delegates for the primary election urged the National Chairman of the party, Ozo Oye, not to allow enemies of the party from the opposition to disrupt election process of the party. At the moment, a new date and venue for the primary election are being expected while security has further been beefed up in the area but feelers are that the election may take place in Awka for security reasons. But a source said Mrs Obiano had no hand in fracas. He said, “Contrary to the report that thugs loyal to Mrs Obiano chased away her opponent at the venue of their primary today in Aguleri, while Mrs Obiano sat unperturbed, news reaching us indicated that as at the time of the said disturbance, madam was still at home and thus had no hand in what happened.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com