The former Ebonyi State Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Lands, Survey and Housing, Mrs Ann Agom-Eze, has alleged that chieftains of the All Progressives Congress chapter in the state were frustrating her senatorial ambition. Agom-Eze, who had picked the party’s nomination and declaration of interest forms to contest for the Ebonyi South Senatorial District, alleged that she was being threatened by some unnamed party chieftains to ensure she dropped her ambition. The female aspirant’s allegation was contained in a statement by her campaign organisation’s Publicity Secretary, David Nsi, on Saturday. According to the statement, there are plots to force Agom-Eze to drop her senatorial ambition through intimidation. “We have uncovered desperate plots to use subterranean tactics including intimidation, harassment, and other undemocratic manoeuvering to edge Agom-Eze out of the senatorial race. “We, therefore, called on the national leadership of APC to ensure full transparency in the screening exercise of National Assembly aspirants from Ebonyi, especially those from the Ebonyi South senatorial zone where our principal hails from. ”It has been brought to our notice that some influential members of APC in our state and in particular Ebonyi South, have infiltrated into the APC Screening Committee with the intention to have her screened out and disqualify her from contesting in the primaries. “It has also been brought to our notice that they have hatched plans to remove her duly Nominated and Expressions of Interest forms and other credentials in order to disenfranchise her.” “Furthermore, it has also been brought to our notice that her security can no longer be guaranteed as she has been inundated with calls from different quarters insisting that she withdraws without delay. ”We are equally calling on Her Excellency, Dr Aisha Buhari, our mother to please come to our aid to ensure that she is given the opportunity to exercise her democratic right as a free citizen of the Federal Republic of Nigeria,” the statement said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com