The Securities and Exchange Commission has said there is an urgent need for standardisation of estate valuation in the capital market. This will prevent differences in valuation of similar properties. The Commission also charged estate surveyors and valuers, under the aegis of the Association of Capital Market Valuers (ACMV), to ensure accurate, transparent and fair estimation of value at all times to boost the confidence and trust of investors and stakeholders in the market, while providing an acceptable benchmark for measuring performance. According to a statement, the Director General of SEC, Lamido Yugada, who was represented by Head Investment Funds Supervision, Briggs Abel, made this known at a workshop with the theme, “Assets valuation as an economic tool for decision making in the capital market” organised by ACMV and SEC in Abuja on Tuesday. The DG expressed concern that valuers were in most cases influenced by dictates of their principal, which might run contrary to the interest of the investors and the market, coupled with widespread disparity in valuation of same assets by different valuers. These, according to him, impeded on the integrity and outcome of valuers’ activities and the capital market as a whole. “The beauty of establishing this association out of the larger institute is that it presents an opportunity to undertake specific professionalism. The grouping is the association of capital market valuers’ ability of setting relevant professional standards , codes of ethics and job prescription that will enhance the quality of its engagement and to which every member will be bound. “The provision of this service therefore galvanises trust and confidence in the integrity of related transactions and is without doubt a direct positive consequence of the critical role of asset valuation for the proper working of the capital market. The essence of valuation in the market cannot be overemphasized. “Allow me to congratulate you on the establishment as a subsidiary.  We at the commission believe that this is a step in the right direction. We are confident that it will enhance focus, professionalism, trust and confidence of stakeholders. The DG noted that the association might, in the future, be eligible to be recognised as a self-regulatory organisation with attendant delegate powers and responsibilities. “This status, when attained, will enhance the quality of valuation prices and engender approved public perception and user confidence in the association and its members. The commission will support in the development of functions specific standards and codes to boost your activities as valuers,” he added. Principal Partner D’Lord, Maseli and Partners, David Maseli,  said the role of the  association was key in the capital market, particularly at a time more products were coming into the market. “This association is important and there must be standards, control and a way we do things. Market valuation is key in the marketplace and the economy.  If only the people in authority understand what capital market can do, that’s where we have the long-term funds to actually develop the economy,” he added. He noted that the capital market, which was funded from pension fund assets, amounted to N16 trillion and currently lying idle. He noted that funds could be used to finance critical infrastructure. Chairman ACMV, Chudi Ubosi, said the association aimed to filling the void in the capital market operations. According to him,  estate surveyors and valuers offered a wide range of services adding value to the market, which was unknown to many.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com