Met Gala, an annual fundraising event fondly referred to as fashion’s biggest night, is back. With the theme, “In America: An Anthology of Fashion”, the ball which traditionally holds every first Monday in May, returned as scheduled this year. While the event could not hold in 2020, it was postponed to September in 2021 due to COVID-19 restrictions. The event’s dress code, ‘Gilded Glamour and White Tie’, saw celebrities delving into the fashion archives of late-nineteenth-century New York, according to Vogue. The Gilded Age, a period which spanned 1870 to 1890, was characterised by “unprecedented prosperity, cultural change, and industrialisation” in the city. As earlier announced, hosts of the night’s red carpet included, Vogue editor-at-large, Hamish Bowles; actor and singer, Vanessa Hudgens; and TV personality, La La Anthony. Styled by Ricardo Tisci, iconic hip-hop star, Nicki Minaj stunned in an all-black ensemble consisting of a sleeveless tulle dress, leather leggings, and a Burberry baseball cap. Her face, shoulders, and arms were spotted with gleaming black stones to complete the look. Former United States Secretary of States, Hilary Clinton, was also present at the event in a simple red, long-sleeved ball gown. Singer Alicia Keys, also walked the red carpet in a black gown with a sweeping cape adorned with bejewelled images of New York’s famous skyscrapers. South African billionaire, who currently holds the title of World’s richest man, Elon Musk, also graced the red carpet in a black tailcoat. He was accompanied by his mother, Maye, who was dressed in a crimson velvet Dior gown. The Kardashians are not left out in the parade, with Kylie Jenner stealing the show in an Off-White wedding dress, and a net-veiled baseball hat. Her sisters, Khloe and Kourtney both made their debut appearance at the event this year. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com