Ahead of today’s protest by Christians as directed by the Christian Association of Nigeria over the killing of Deborah Samuel, a 200-level female student of the Shehu Shagari College of Education, Sokoto, the association has alerted its members to reports that some Muslims plan to disrupt the peaceful protest. Deborah was on Thursday, May 12, stoned to death and set ablaze on the school premises by an angry mob over alleged blasphemy. She was alleged to have cautioned her colleagues against posting religious materials on a WhatsApp group meant for assignments, a post some students found blasphemous. CAN had in a letter to all church leaders urged Christians to hold peaceful protest within their church premises or the CAN secretariat close to them on May 22 by 3pm. Meanwhile, in a statement on Saturday, CAN President, Rev Samson Ayokunle, said, “You are all aware that some Muslims had sent out information that they were going to counter our peaceful protest on Sunday, May 22. Their intention is to cause chaos and attribute it to us. “In view of the foregoing, I urge you all to hold the protest by carrying placards within the premises of your local churches or your CAN secretariat. However, where it is unsafe to do the protest in the premises of your church or CAN secretariat, you may carry the placards inside your church and pray for justice for Deborah Samuel who was wickedly and extrajudicially slain. “Pray as well for a change of heart for the wicked who find it convenient for them to kill their fellow human beings under religious guise. In all, let the television cover your in-house protest and equally use the social media for the entire world to see. May the Lord be with us all, His Church in Nigeria and our nation.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com