The 2021/22 European season ended Sunday and while it was a memorable one for several Nigerian players, it would be a campaign to forget for some of their fellow countrymen, writes EBENEZER BAJELA In Turkey, Trabzonspor won their first league title after 38 years, while Nantes also broke a 22-year jinx to claim the Coup de France, thanks to the amazing contributions of their Nigerian stars. Some other exports from the country also won personal accolades and helped their clubs survive relegation battles, but others weren’t that lucky. PUNCH Sports Extra takes a look at some Nigerians that emerged as winners and losers as the season drew to a close… WINNERS Taiwo Awoniyi (Union Berlin) Awoniyi finished the season as Nigeria’s top scorer in Europe’s top five leagues with 15 Bundesliga goals and 20 across all competitions to help Union Berlin finish fourth in the German topflight and seal a Europa League spot for next season. The 24-year-old striker endured a difficult time during seven years at English giants Liverpool, where he never made a single appearance for the Reds, but his first season after being sold has proven to be his best so far in his young career. Victor Osimhen (Napoli) Osimhen’s remarkable 2021/22 season has seen him rated among the most sought-after strikers in Europe with top English clubs Manchester United, Arsenal and Liverpool reportedly interested in the striker. Despite Napoli’s inability to end their 30-year wait for the Serie A title, Osimhen, on a personal note, had a great season and was on target on 18 occasions in 32 games in all competitions. The 23-year-old’s season was blighted by several injuries at some point, but the former Lille man still claimed the award for the best U-23 player in Italy. Moses Simon (Nantes) Simon’s 14 goals contribution (six goals and eight assists) in the French Ligue 1 ranks him among the best players in the league. However, the Nigerian’s most memorable moment in the just-ended season was helping Nantes win the Coupe de France after a 22-year wait. It was a great season for the winger, who won several individual awards (player of the week and month, and was also nominated for the Marc-Vivien Foé award, which was won by Ivory Coast’s Seko Fofana. Anthony Nwakaeme (Trabzonspor) Similar to Simon, Nwakaeme had a trophy to celebrate after guiding Turkish side, Trabzonspor, to a league title win after 48 years. The 33-year-old striker finished the season as the club’s second top scorer with 13 goals despite being ruled out for a major part of the season through injury. He also finished the league as one of the players with the most assists (10). Cyriel Dessers (Feyenoord) From being relegated to the bench at Genk, to being loaned to Dutch side Feyenoord, it’s been a season to remember for Dessers. He was largely used as an impact substitute when he first landed in the Eredivisie, but he’s become one of the most talked-about player this season, following his goals scoring exploits in the maiden UEFA Europa Conference League, where he’s notched a record 10 goals in 12 games to help Feyenoord reach the final as well as topping the scorers chart. The forward took his total career goals to 100 this season, after scoring 21 goals in all competitions for the Dutch side. His impressive form has seen the one-cap Super Eagles striker recalled to the national team, two years after he made his Nigeria debut. The 27-year-old is on course to win the Conference when Feyenoord take on Roma in the final on Wednesday. Alex Iwobi (Everton) Criticised at the initial stage of the season for his underwhelming performance, Iwobi finished the 2021/22 Premier League season as one of Everton’s best players. With the Toffees staring relegation in the face, a messiah was needed and the former Arsenal man rose to the occasion to help the Toffees avoid the drop. Iwobi featured in Everton’s last 12 matches of the season, playing in different positions in a bid to ensure they remained among the Premier League’s big boys. And the 26-year-old’s solid performance in different positions was one of the reasons Frank Lampard’s men survived the drop with his impressive display against Newcastle, where he also grabbed a goal, the turning point for the club. Samuel Chukwueze (Villarreal) Chukwueze enjoyed a fine season with Spanish club Villarreal and also hit a personal milestone, making the LaLiga Team of The Week a record three times. In a season that ended on a disappointing note for the Yellow Submarines, the 22-year-old winger was one of the standout players. He ended the season with seven goals and three assists in 37 games in all competitions. One of the forward’s memorable moments would definitely be his late goal against Bayern Munich at the Allianz Arena, which sent Villarreal to their second semi-final appearance in the UEFA Champions League. Rangers trio Nigerian trio Joe Aribo, Leon Balogun and Calvin Bassey helped Glasgow Rangers win the Scottish Cup for the first time since 2009 to crown what was almost a great season for the Scottish club. The Gers put their disappointing defeat to Eintracht Frankfurt in the final of the UEFA Europa League last Wednesday behind them to end the season on a positive note. Despite the defeat in the final of the Europa, Bassey emerged as the best defender of the tournament and has been touted for a big move away from Ibrox ahead of next season. Aribo became the second Nigerian after Iwobi to score in the final of the Europa and could be on the move as well, following a great season. Balogun also had a fine season, netting twice to steer Rangers to the Europa final. After missing out on the final, the defender was back in action on Saturday as the Gers won the Scottish Cup. Paul Onuachu (Genk) Onuachu finished the season with Genk’s Golden Boot award in what was another fine season for the Nigerian on a personal note. Though Genk failed to win any trophy this season, Onuachu ended the 2021/22 campaign with 23 goals and three assists across all competitions, making him one of the most prolific top scorers in Europe. The striker’s performance has not gone unnoticed as several clubs are on his trail ahead of next season. Sadiq Umar (Almeria) Umar has not taken his foot off the pedal as he continued his impressive 2020/21 season in the 2021/22 season, where he found the back of the net 17 times with 12 assists for Segunda Division side Almeria. His 29 goals contributions propelled promotion-chasing Almeria to second on the Segunda table and they are poised to play in the Spanish topflight league next season. Caleb Okoli (Cremonese) Born in Vicenza, Italy to Nigerian parents, big defender Okoli had a solid season with Cremonese in Serie B, helping them earn promotion to the Italian topflight. The defender made 27 appearances and had one assist as Cremonese staged a return to Serie A. His impressive performance recently earned him an invitation fdrom Roberto Mancini to the Italian national team training camp. The 20-year-old 6ft3in tall centre-back has played for Italy at U-19, U-20 and U-21 levels, but is eligible to represent Nigeria at senior level. Zaidu Sanusi (Portugal) Sanusi is undoubtedly Nigeria’s best achiever in Europe this season after claiming the double with Porto in Portugal. The left-back finished a fine counterattack late in the game against Benfica to help Porto clinch the league title and was also in action on Sunday as they won the Portuguese Cup. It was a fine season for the powerful defender, who scored three goals from 24 league appearances. LOSERS Venezia duo David Okereke and Tyron Ebuehi could not help Venezia avoid relegation from the Italian toplight after finishing bottom of Serie A. Okereke scored seven goals in 32 appearances but it was an underwhelming performance from the striker. Meanwhile, Ebuehi made 19 league appearances as the Italian outfit got relegated with just 26 points garnered across the campaign. Watford gang William Troost-Ekong, Dennis Emmanuel, Samuel Kalu and Oghenekaro Etero ended on the losing side as Watford were relegated from the English Premier League. On a personal note, Dennis had a decent outing, contributing to 16 of the Hornets’ goals (10 goals and six assists). Despite a bright start to the campaign as a regular, Troost-Ekong was relegated to the bench after his involvement for Nigeria at the Africa Cup of Nations in January and made just 17 appearances in the campaign. The defender could be on his way out of the club when the transfer window opens. On loan from Stoke City, Etebo endured a turbulent season in England as he made just nine appearances playing just 397 minutes. Not considered an integral part, Etebo spent most of his time watching from the bench as Watford continued to go down. Signed in January from Bordeaux, Kalu joined the host of Nigerians relegated with Watford. The winger made four appearances for the Hornets. Josh Maja It was a very difficult first half of the season for Maja, who saw only 38 minutes of action with Bordeaux before making a loan move to Stoke City in January. The Nigerian will play next season in the lower division when he returns to France.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com