A premier financial technology brand in Nigeria, Callphone Limited, has been granted the
final approval license to operate under the Payment Solution Service license category as a PSSP/PTSP/Super Agent in Nigeria. This was contained in a statement by the firm. The license approval came about five months after the company was given Approval-in-Principle back in November 2021. The company’s Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer, Precious Ekezie, expressed his
excitement over the licence, saying, it was a call to do more for Nigerians. He said, “I am delighted to announce our acquisition of the final PSS license. With this, we become the pioneer of this licence categorization after meeting all mandatory requirements including escrowing the minimum capital requirement of N250 million to CBN as one of the licensing
prerequisites. “We were able to achieve this through the continuous support of the company board, dedicated management team, and wonderful staff who align with our mission and vision.” He went ahead to highlight the importance of the license and restated the company’s
commitment to driving the financial inclusion gospel to every corner of the continent. “The PSS license takes Callphone a step further toward achieving its goal of building a
reliable and reputable financial service company. The company’s mission of providing
seamless financial transactions to customers and partners are in line with the Central Bank of
Nigeria’s financial inclusion policy and this license provide a quantum leap to the growth of
this company as it works towards contributing its quota to strengthen and intensify the
Fintech reaches and creates new possibilities in the financial technology sector in Africa.” The chairman of the company, Nze Duru, said, “This current milestone marks the next step in the company’s journey of providing seamless financial transactions to customers, partnering with more growth-focused brands, and intensifying its position as the foremost payment solution service provider in Nigeria.”