A Federal High Court in Abuja, on Wednesday, adjourned till June 1 a case challenging the forthcoming presidential primary of the Peoples Democratic Party scheduled for May 28. One of the presidential aspirants of the PDP, Ndukwe Chukwudi, had on April 28, asked Justice Donatus Okorowo to stop the presidential primary for contravening its zoning agreement and not agreeing to field a candidate from the South-East. Justice Okorowo, at the time, rather fixed May 18 for parties to file their written addresses which would then lead to a verdict on the case. But on Wednesday, counsel for the PDP chairman, M. Aliyu (SAN), told the court that he had entered an application before the Court of Appeal. He, therefore, urged the court to adjourn since his application before the Court of Appeal would be heard on May 26. Other defendants in the suit including the PDP National Secretary, Senator Samuel Anyanwu, and another interested party, aligned with the submissions of Aliyu. But Chukwudi’s lawyer, Paul Erokoro (SAN), argued that the court should refuse the second defendant’s application but added that an application for a stay of proceeding or adjournment fell within the discretionary powers of the judge. Justice Okorowo held that he would have to adjourn proceedings because an appeal had been entered. He also said that adjournment was necessary because one of the parties seeking to be joined in the matter had not been heard. The Judge said, “I have seen the processes filed by the second defendant regarding the appeal, and parties have acknowledged that they have received the notice of hearing. “In the present case, there is a motion for joinder, an application which the court cannot ignore. “I hereby order an adjournment in view of the motion for stay at the Court of Appeal. Matter adjourned to June 1 for the continuation of hearing.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com