Police in Kwara State said that it has set crack detectives after some hoodlums who allegedly murdered two youths at the Adifa area of Ilorin, Kwara State on Friday night. The police said two young boys, identified as Lukman and Kudus, both at the Adifa and Cente Igboro areas of Ilorin were stabbed to death by a group of boys led by one Habeeb Ganiyu of the Agbarere area in Ilorin. The two boys were stabbed several times in the chest and died before they got to the hospital. A statement signed by the Public Relations Officer of the Kwara State Police Command, Ajayi Okasanmi,  said it was yet to know the cause of the disagreement between the two groups but said detectives had been sent after the hoodlums who took to their heels immediately after committing the crime. Okasanmi said, “(The) Kwara State Police Command is unhappy about the report of the killings of two young boys named Lukman and Kudus, both at the Adifa and Cente Igboro areas of Ilorin. “The attack was carried out by a group of boys led by one Habeeb Ganiyu ‘m’ of the Agbarere area of Ilorin, who stabbed the deceased several times in the chest. Victims were rushed to the University of Ilorin Teaching Hospital by men of Oja Oba Police station after responding to the distress call. The victims were confirmed dead immediately they arrived at UITH by the doctors on duty. “The suspect that led the group that carried out the attack, one Habeeb Ganiyu ‘m’ who was also seriously injured, was arrested. “The immediate/remote cause(s) of the fatal attack is yet to be unravelled. “However, the Commissioner of Police, Kwara State Police Command, CP Tuesday Assayomo psc, has  ordered a discreet investigation into the matter, by deploying strategies  that would lead to the  arrest of the fleeing attackers, adding that anybody found to have contributed to the ugly process that led to the death of the victims would be arrested and made to bear the full weight of the law,” he said. “The Commissioner of Police assures the people of the area in particular and Kwara State in general of their safety and security at all times, advising law breakers to vacate Kwara State, as anyone arrested for committing any crime would be dealt with in accordance to the laws of the land,” the statement said.