The Politics and Governance Forum of the Redeemed Christian Church of God, Gombe, on Sunday, encouraged members to participate in the ongoing Continuous Voter Registration and join any political party of their choice. Speaking on behalf of the delegation to Mercyland parish, Phillip Jehu said the forum became operational based on the directive of the General Overseer of the Church, Pastor Enoch Adeboye. The delegation further harped that politics is not dirty, but one that ensures progress, development, adding that, even if it is dirty, Christians are better positioned to rid it of impurities. He revealed that the RCCG is an unbiased, non-partisan entity, stressing that members were free to decide which political parties to support. Jehu said, “The youth is the strength of every nation (and) the church. We can’t be onlookers and expect a change. The Bible says while men slept, the enemy came and sow tares. If you are not a card-carrying member (of a political party), you can’t determine who leads. You should be part of the process. “We must be registered. Based on statistics, we (Christians) have voter apathy. Politics can be said to be dirty when we leave it in the hands of dirty people. Ensure that you participate from the ward, local government, state and national levels.” Also speaking, Okezie Ejeagba encouraged parishioners to participate, adding that when vacuum is left others alot of times not capable would occupy it. He said, “There are those who don’t vote because of security reasons. We are not telling you the party to join, we are not partisan. Those that believe politics is dirty, we will go with water and (detergent) to make it clean. On his part, the pastor-in-charge of Mercyland Youth Church, Sam Elebiyo, encouraged members to register and get involved. According to Elebiyo, the Church would organise a programme hinged on boosting the level of participation in politics. He said, “Christians are the problems of fellow Christians; they delight in bringing themselves (one another) down.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com