The Managing Director of R.T.Briscoe Nigeria, Mr. Seyi Onajide, has stepped down as the president of the Association of Automobile, Boatyards, Transport Equipment and Allied Employers of Nigeria. Onajide announced this at the opening of the 42nd Annual General Meeting held at CFAO Motors Ijora Causeway, Lagos. He said, “I am stepping down as the president of AABTEAN for two reasons. Firstly, I will be turning 60 this year and as such, I should begin to focus more on the future. Secondly, I think I should give room for fresh blood and fresh ideas with strategic thinking to move the association forward. I am very happy that I’m leaving behind a very strong team as committee members and I’m confident that they can take the association further from where I left it,” he said. He said unlike when he was elected president of the association without being a member of the committee because the association was in dire need of leadership, AABTEAN was now stronger and better with committed members. He pledged his support to the progress when needed. In his acceptance speech, the newly elected President of AABTEAN Mr. Adekunle Jaiyesimi, who is the deputy managing director of CFAO Motors Nigeria, expressed his appreciation to the members for the confidence reposed in him to lead the association and promised that the newly constituted committee would meet to restrategise on how to move the association forward. He, however, noted that his team would be counting on the continuous support of all members to achieve success. It could be recalled that Mr. Onajide served as the president of AABTEAN for eight consecutive terms. Meanwhile, Mr. Femi Eguaikhide of R.T.Briscoe and Mrs. Morenike Ogunnowo of Honda Manufacturing Nigeria Limited were also elected as vice president and treasurer of the association respectively.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com