A former Deputy Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria, Chief Adebayo Adelabu, has assured his supporters and people of Oyo State that he will contest the governorship election in the state in 2023. This was contained in a statement he signed and made available to newsmen on Sunday in Ibadan. Sen. Teslim Folarin had emerged as the party’s flag bearer at the governorship primary, held at Obafemi Awolowo Stadium in Ibadan on Friday. Adelabu, a governorship aspirant on the platform of the All Progressives Congress in the state, had pulled out of the party’s governorship primary. Adelabu described the primary as a charade, alleging that the delegates’ list for the governorship primary was compromised. “This is to put on record that I didn’t participate in the charade called the primary election, as the delegates’ lists were manipulated. “The delegates’ list to be used at the governorship primary had been compromised, and a new one formulated by the main arbiter who was to superintend the exercise,” he said. He debunked speculations that he had defected to Social Democratic Party after the APC governorship primary, saying that he was still consulting on his next move. “My attention has also been drawn to my purported defection to Social Democratic Party after the just- concluded APC primary election. “I’m still consulting widely with political associates, community opinion leaders, families, and friends. “I am categorically stating that I have not defected to any other party. “My final decision will be communicated to you all at the end of consultation in a matter of days,” he said. Adelabu said that no matter what, he would contest the 2023 general election as a governorship candidate, adding that that was the reason he left his groovy as the CBN deputy governor in 2018. According to him, no amount of intimidation, threat, or harassment can stop him from his passionate ambition of revolutionising the political, social, and economic landscape of the state. “All I can tell the whole world for now is that I am going to contest in the 2023 general election as a governorship candidate, no matter what. “This is the only reason I left my groovy career as a deputy governor of CBN in 2018. “No amount of intimidation, threat, or harassment can stop me from my passionate ambition of revolutionising the political, social, and economic landscape of Oyo state through the machinery of government,” he said. Adelabu alleged that the delegates list sent from the party national secretariat was compromised, with names of non-delegates included. He added that the compromised list allowed impersonation of real delegates and illegal voting on their behalf. Adelabu explained that he was mindful of the fact that his ambition should never be a cause for spilling the blood of those he intended to serve, hence his decision to stay back. He said that an unnecessary bloodbath would have been engendered if he had attended the primary to foist the flag of truth and honesty. “I hereby use this opportunity to plead with my supporters throughout the nooks and crannies of Oyo State to remain calm and be law-abiding. “We shall, in the shortest time, inform you all of my next line of action. “The provision of more abundant life for the great people of Oyo State is non-negotiable,” he said. NAN