Provost of the Federal College of Education Technical, Akoka, Lagos, Dr Wahab Azeez, has said the Centre for Vocational Technical Entrepreneurship and Development is equipping students with both vocational and soft skills. Azeez stated this while giving a report of his three years in office to some journalists. According to him, programmes run by CEFTED are different from the regular courses offered at the college and are captured with the National Commission for Colleges of Education. He explained that the CEFTED  was basically for academic programmes and some vocational skills training, saying this would assist trained technical teachers at the college to have vocations they could fall back on after graduation. He added that the Centre for Endowment Development and Advancement and Alumni Relations which was also approved by the academic board was established to address the funding challenges of the college as a technical institution, saying it required huge funding to provide and sustain learning infrastructure. ‘‘The management in its resolve to improve on existing infrastructure has judiciously utilised opportunities provided by the Tertiary Education Trust Fund that resulted in the construction and furnishing of a new 500 capacity lecture theatre, science laboratory complex, student activity centre, technical workshop, and the first of its kind provost lodge, construction of three floors building for the Fine Arts and Agriculture Education and remodelling/renovation of School of Education auditorium, SIWESS building, School of Business Education and staff office block, among others.’’ He listed other successes recorded by the management to include the solar electrification, result-oriented affiliation with the University of Benin, procurement of quality teaching equipment, multimedia projector, desks and chairs and hostel to mention afew. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com