The Appeal Committee for the Ad-hoc Delegate Congresses of the ruling All Progressives Congress in Kaduna State, on Saturday, upheld the congress while declaring the exercise as “successful.” A total of 1,275 delegates were elected for the local and state levels each while 69 national delegates were unanimously elected, bringing the number to 2,619 delegates in all. The party had last week conducted congresses to elect the local government, state and national delegates. The exercise was done by consensus in accordance with APC’s elections guidelines and constitution. The five-man committee, headed by Mrs Tinuke Gbadejo-Ogunrinde, while addressing journalists at the state secretariat of the party, said the congresses were hitch-free, stating that no complaint was received before, during or after the congresses. Ogunrinde said, “Our great party, the APC assigned us to serve as the Appeal Committee for the Special Congress held on May 17 and 18, 2022 to elect the local government, state and national delegates for Kaduna State. “This Appeal Committee received records from the congress committee appointed by our great party, confirming that various categories of delegates emerged from the Special Congress in the 23 local government areas as follows: 1,275 local government delegates; 1,275 state delegates and 69 national delegates were unanimously elected during the Special Congress by consensus. “At the conclusion of our assignment, this committee did not receive any petition, before, during or after the Special Congress of the Kaduna State APC. “All the members of this committee are grateful to our party, the APC, for this appointment and we express our appreciation for the cooperation of the Kaduna State Chapter of the APC.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com