A group, Division Mandate Movement, has urged the National Working Committee of the Peoples Democratic Party to discipline the national spokesperson of Coalition of Political Parties, Ugochinyere Imo, for dragging the party into the ” mud”, following the outcome of the Saturday’s three man ad-hoc delegates election which held in Imo state. The group said that the CUPP’s spokesperson, by his comments, was acting like a bad loser. The Director General of the group, Prof Nathan Protus, in a press conference in Owerri, the state capital, on Tuesday, flayed the CUPP spokesperson for accusing the national secretary of the PDP, Senator Samuel Anyanwu, of interfering with the Congress in the state on Saturday. Protus said that Imo’s comments against the person of the national secretary of the PDP was an indication that he was “behaving like a bad loser.” The group which is sympathetic to the PDP accused Imo of being sponsored by a ” known mole in PDP in Imo state” to blackmail the National Chairman. Protus said that the CUPP’s spokesperson’s call for the removal of Anyanwu as the National Secretary of the main opposition party on the basis that he (Anyanwu) was expelled from the party was ” an abomination, infantile and should be subjected to a proper check.” He said, “It is also worthy of note that few individuals who wanted to hijack the whole exercise but were disappointed are crying foul, and calling for its cancellation. One Ikenga Ugochinyere, who claims to be aspiring for the House of Representative seat for Ideato North and South Constituency, had accused the National Secretary of our party of interference. He also called for the removal of our National Secretary, claiming that he was expelled and as such, should not be holding any position in our party. “More so, as members and leaders of PDP in Imo state, we did not waste time to probe the claims immediately we received it, alas, after much investigation to ascertain the veracity of this jumbo allegation, we discovered that Ikenga Ugochinyere, the CUPP self styled spokesperson was commissioned by a onetime Governor of Imo state to blackmail our National Secretary with such fictitious allegation . “On the allegation that our National Secretary was expelled from party by his Ward Chairman; we consider this as a bogus lie from the pit of hell, and state that at no time was our National Secretary expelled from PDP apart from some individuals who were used to execute a failed coup against party leaders as if, PDP in Imo state is their personal business. “It is worthy of note that as members and leaders of PDP in Imo state, we have watched keenly the leadership performances of our National Secretary, and resolved that he remains the best in galvanizing our party for onward victory in 2023. “We, therefore, warn any desperate individual on a mission to create a crisis in our party to desist forthwith, or be met with our party’s disciplinary action. Imo on his own said that he had commenced an action plan to ensure that Anyanwu is removed as the National Secretary of the PDP. A statement issued by Imo in Owerri read, “Activities timelines to help ensure we avert the danger of exclusion of PDP from the 2023 general election in view of the erroneous election of Samuel Anyanwu as the PDP National Secretary during the pendency of his expulsion from PDP and the need for immediate swearing-in of the Deputy National Secretary as acting Secretary to avoid our 2023 election nomination been voided because an expelled member signed our documents and nomination forms. “Action one is Petition to the members of PDP NEC for the immediate appointment of the Deputy National Secretary to act in view of the erroneous election of Samuel Anyanwu as Secretary, while still on expulsion and the risk of PDP exclusion from 2023 general elections if he continues to sign party documents. The above is part of the exhaustion of the internal conflict resolution mechanism of the Party – 3rd May 2022 “Action two is public display of documents and evidence against the ineligible National Secretary to members of the Party to avoid a had we known crying – 4th May 2023 (All National live Live transmission display of evidence)* “Action three is petition to INEC to help call the Party to order to appoint a valid National Secretary if the NEC fails to act – 5th May 2023 “Action four is commencement of the ‘Save our Party’ multiple legal actions, to restrain the ineligible National Secretary from parading as an officer of the Party in view of the pendency of his expulsion and for the deputy National Secretary to be sworn in immediately to complete our 2023 general election preparation – Friday 6th May 2023. “Note all these efforts and others, for confidential reasons, cannot be written here, are aimed at saving the soul of our great Party from being destroyed by a man who knew he was not a member of the Party but took up our party job for the purpose of destroying what our founding fathers built. “We shall spare no energy and resources until PDP is secured and all 2023 obstacles removed.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com