The Deputy President of the Senate and governorship candidate of the All Progressives Congress in next year’s Delta State governorship election, Ovie Omo-Agege, has boasted that all those that emerged victorious in the party’s primaries will defeat candidates of Peoples Democratic Party in the next year’s elections. According to a statement signed on Sunday by the Director, Communications and Media Strategy, OvieOmo-Agege Campaign Organisation, Ima Niboro, the governorship candidate made the claim while congratulating other newly-elected candidates. The statement is titled ‘Delta 2023: Omo-Agege congratulates APC candidates’. He expressed “confidence that the standard-bearers would defeat the PDP in Delta State and emerge victorious in the various elections next year. The PUNCH reports that the APC had adopted Senator Peter Nwaoboshi unopposed as its Delta North Senatorial District candidate for the 2023 senatorial elections. Other senatorial aspirants who return unopposed include Joel-Onowakpo Thomas and Ede Dafinone for Delta South and Delta Central senatorial districts, respectively. Francis Waive was also elected the party’s candidate for Ughelli North, Ughelli South, and Udu Federal Constituency. Describing the process as “no victor or vanquished”, Omo-Agege equally congratulated other APC candidates in other federal constituencies and state assembly seats in the state. “The outcome of the primaries will best be described as no victor no vanquished, as all the aspirants gave a good account of themselves and congratulated each other for a good contest,” he said. He described the APC primaries as a sign of good things to come in the state. According to him, the outcome of the elections is a victory for the Delta APC, as it has demonstrated the capacity to work together for the good of the party and the state as a whole. He urged candidates to see their mandates as a collective to bring APC members together in the overall success of the party in next year’s general elections. The lawmaker also lauded the party’s leadership for ensuring the success of the primary election and for effectively mobilising its members to participate fully in the electoral process. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com