Controversial singer, Habeeb Okikiola, popularly known as Portable, survived a car accident shortly after apologising to the organisers of the Headies Awards for making death threats against the artistes nominated alongside him in two categories— Best Street-Hop Artiste and Rookie of the Year. The singer took to Instagram to post a video showing the damaged car. He said, “I am just in search of what to eat, may God not allow me meet what will eat me. But, why is it that the most damaged part of the vehicle was the passenger seat I sat on? Meanwhile, nothing happened to the driver’s side of the vehicle. They want to kill a superstar but nothing (untoward) will happen to a child of God.” Before the accident, the singer had apologised to the Headies for threatening to commit murder if he does not win the awards he was nominated for. He said, “Headies have nominated a mad man. Streets have taken over. So, you people should give us the award. Please don’t be angry. If I misbehave, I won’t be the first to do so. Many people have misbehaved before. Please, I want to collect my award.” Recall that on Friday, Smooth Promotions Limited, the parent company of the Headies, had written a petition to the Nigerian Police Force, formally notifying them of the singer’s threat to other nominees of the award. They also asked the singer to tender an apology for his statement. The statement read in part, “Should Mr Okikiola fail to meet our demands, we would not only disqualify him from participating in the Headies but also enforce the instrumentalities of the law to the fullest.” On Wednesday, May 25, 2022, the singer had said, “Those are my awards. (If) anybody else wins, I will ask for them to be killed. If the organisers give my award to someone else, they will die. Don’t give my award to another person. He (the person) will die.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com