In every country, the main role of the government and parliament is to prioritise policy options and investments. Hopefully, these policies will be the ones that deliver the greatest benefit for each naira spent. These could be enormously effective investments in health such as rotavirus vaccinations, or in education such as structured teacher plans. However, as everywhere else in the world, policies are often driven by other considerations that can dramatically reduce effectiveness. This could be driven by special interest groups and vocal minorities highlighting their preferred options. For instance, subsidies of fertilisers definitely help the individual farmer, but overall, such a policy delivers only small returns for society. And media will often push exciting interventions, even if their returns are dubious. For instance, giving each child a cheap laptop was long seen as an exciting and crucial pathway to educate children in the 21st century. Now, studies conclusively show that not only is this an expensive option but also one that delivers zero benefits — actually the children possibly become slightly less attentive. Data and economic science can provide a really useful input to help the government and citizens cut through the noise from interest groups, and assist with the allocation of resources to improve the budgeting process. Cost-benefit analysis—an approach that uses rigorous, cross-sectoral economic analysis to establish what could be achieved by spending additional money in different areas—is rarely used by any government in the world in a broad, transparent fashion. Why? It requires large numbers of academics, well-organised inputs and the collection of considerable data, and it creates analytical results that can upset some vested interest groups. My think-tank, Copenhagen Consensus Centre, has been working for the past decade to improve this situation. We have worked in countries including Denmark, Bangladesh, Haiti, India, Ghana and Malawi to introduce a rational, data-driven input to countries’ priority-setting. These projects have helped state and national governments to zero in on the most powerful investments. In India, we collaborated with Tata Trusts, the nation’s oldest philanthropy, while in Bangladesh we worked with BRAC, the world’s biggest non-governmental organisation. These local inputs make sure that the policies examined are the most relevant to each country. The findings of our projects have shifted policies in ways that help people: the Haitian government, with support from USAID, launched the country’s first food-fortification project as a result of our research. The United Kingdom used our findings to support a global initiative to end undernutrition. Colombia used our evidence on the benefits of marine reserves to quadruple the size of a marine reserve. The Danish government spent millions more on HIV/AIDS based on Copenhagen Consensus findings. We are now undertaking a project for the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation to investigate how nations can best spend resources within the conversation of the so-called Sustainable Development Goals. What could such an investigation achieve for Nigeria? The country has huge opportunities ahead but also challenges which could impact prosperity if not navigated carefully. A rapid assessment we just undertook for Uganda points to the types of research that could help Nigeria. We worked with Uganda’s National Planning Authority to examine each of the interventions suggested in the new Uganda Budget Strategy, undertaking a rapid assessment to quickly evaluate the costs and benefits of each initiative, based on the academic literature. This report highlighted the vast benefits of opening schools unconditionally and keeping them open to improve future earnings for Ugandan children. The research also showed the huge benefits from prioritising healthcare spending on specific communicable diseases like malaria and tuberculosis. Among all the competing claims on the healthcare budget, there is huge value in focusing any additional resources on these areas where relatively tiny investments can generate vast results. It also showed areas that shouldn’t be prioritised, such as software skills development training which sounds sensible and often attracts attention, but typically has low returns, given the huge global competition in this area. And the Uganda research pointed to the potential benefits of region-wide policies such as the reduction of non-tariff barriers across Africa, which could boost gross domestic products across the region by 2.2 % or $5.2 billion. Showing where each naira does the most good does not offer the last word in budgetary decision-making. Nor does it supplant politicians. It merely ensures that citizens and politicians are better informed. Decisions on how to allocate scarce resources should always remain the domain of elected politicians. But this input means that the politicians and their officials are able to pick more of the really effective programs and slightly fewer of the less so, with additional data from economic science. Uganda’s National Planning Authority Executive Director Joseph Muvawala says the Copenhagen Consensus report will be “core in guiding Government in the reprioritisation” of actions for its next National Development Plan. Nigeria should consider embracing the same opportunity. Let us bring together Nigerian and international academics to start mapping out what really works and highlight where the next naira can be spent best. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com