THE Lagos State Governor, Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu, has told the 5074 outgoing National Youth Service Corps members in the state to be diligent and ensure they fulfill their purpose. Speaking at the Passing-out Parade of the 5074  Batch ‘A’ Stream II corps members held at the NYSC Iyana-Ipaja camp,  Sanwo-Olu who was represented by the Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Special Duties and Intergovernmental Relations, Mr Sesan Tunde-Ogundeko, said “With the enthusiasm with which you invested to the reduction of the scourge of the pandemic,  I want to urge you to carry that out into the real world, where you can affect lives positively with your innovations and irrepressible spirit. It is, therefore, exigent that you bring to bear the entrepreneurial skills you acquired through the NYSC platform so that you can empower yourself and others as it is the joint spirited efforts of individuals and tenacity of government that create a comfortable place for the citizenry.” He advised them to be good ambassadors of their family, saying they should avoid an ostentatious lifestyle. “Commit to honesty in your dealings and by all means avoid criminal activities,” he advised. Also speaking, the Lagos State coordinator of NYSC, Mrs Yetude Baderinwa, also said the 5074 corps members had been well equipped to tackle any challenge that may come their way after the service year through the various skills and life-changing programmes organised for them. She revealed that 12 corps members would repeat the NYSC due to abscondment. “It is my pleasure to inform this gathering that 5074 corps members will today be discharged from the national service after fulfilling their requirements for the award of their Certificate of National Service.  I am elated to inform you that the government and good people of Lagos State are pleased with your contribution to the development of the state during your service year.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com