Women from various sectors have organised a rally to demonstrate their support for the candidacy of Governor Yahaya Bello of Kogi State in the 2023 presidential election in Akure, Ondo State. According to a statement on Wednesday, the women who were members of 700 groups across the country, took to the streets to chant solidarity songs and carry various placards to express their support for Bello. The Deputy National President, Market Women Association of Nigeria, Nike Aroloye, said the women of Nigeria were already looking beyond the primaries of the two major parties. She said, “We already see the ticket with Yahaya Bello. Once he gets it, we are marching straight to Aso Rock. All my market women are ready to support him. We will go everywhere for this cause. He has said we are important. We will give him the reward.” A Nollywood actress, Rose Odika, who led other South-West actresses to the rally said, “I have said it before, and I will repeat it here. Yahaya Bello is the one we will support. From all he has done for women and for his state in general, he is the one to beat. We will only support those who support us. “It has never happened before in the history of Nigeria for a leading presidential candidate to appoint a woman as the Director-General of his campaign.” In her response, the Director-General of the Yahaya Bello Presidential Campaign Organisation, Hafsat Abiola-Costello, assured the people that Bello’s belief in women have earned him their trust. “I am so happy that Nigerian women have decided, for once, to take their destinies in their hands by supporting that one governor that has given them so much voice and has made the world to see how women can turn stone into bread in a troubled economy. He will do the same for Nigeria. “Seeing this huge honest crowd, I am confident that Yahaya Bello’s good deeds, belief in women, and giant strides in a women-filled government, have earned him the trust of Nigerian women. And I assure you, he will never forsake you. He has demonstrated this loudly in Kogi State,” she said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com