A governorship aspirant in Lagos State, Oluwo Wasiu, has appealed to the All Progressives Congress to nominate him as its candidate in the 2023 governorship election in the state. According to him, if given the opportunity to govern the state, he would provide the leadership for a new team that would work to restore the dignity of the state and re-establish leadership role. Wasiu made the appeal during his declaration to contest the governorship seat in Ikeja, on Wednesday. He said, “Today, I am pleased to formally announce to you that I will be seeking the nomination of my party, the All Progressives Congress, to run for the Office of Governor of Lagos State. My motivation is altruistic and my sense of commitment to the people of Lagos is absolute. I was born and bred in Lagos and have lived practically all my life in Lagos State. I know Lagos and Lagos knows me. I do not have the privilege of being an indigene of another state because my maternal and paternal origins are deeply rooted in Epe, Lagos State. “I am running because I believe in the promise of Lagos and the capacity of its people to be great. I do not see Lagos as just one of the 36 States of Nigeria, I see Lagos as a city-state, capable of attaining self-sufficiency in the provision of amenities for all its inhabitants, just like Dubai. If given the opportunity to govern Lagos State, I will provide leadership for a new team that will work to restore the dignity of the state and re-establish its leadership role as we used to know it.” On his plans for the state, Wasiu said he would reset the state on a new trajectory of security and inclusive prosperity and return the wealth of the state back to the true owners so as to birth a fairer state that creates opportunity for all. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com