Former Chief of Army Staff and Nigeria’s Ambassador to Benin Republic, Lt.-Gen. Tukur Buratai (retd.), has urged the Governor of Borno State, Babagana Zulum, and delegates of the All Progressives Congress in the state to vote for presidential hopeful and former Minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi. A statement by the Chibuike Rotimi Amaechi Media Office on Sunday quoted Buratai as saying that Amaechi is one Nigerian that can change things for good in the country if given the opportunity to serve as President. He was said to have narrated how Amaechi, as Governor of Rivers State, succeeded in curbing militancy, kidnapping, and other forms of criminality, restoring sanity to the state within a few months of assuming office. According to the statement, Buratai spoke during Amaechi’s consultative meeting with delegates of the APC in Maiduguri, Borno State, on Sunday. He was quoted as saying that, “Your Excellency, we will not share any votes. Give 100 percent of your votes to Rotimi Amaechi, and I will tell you the reasons. Here with us is the man of the moment who is ready to serve, and has shown the determination in his exploits and his experience over the years, as Speaker, governor, and as minister. He has led his fellow governors twice. He has also led his colleagues in parliament as Chairman, Conference of Speakers twice. “He has that experience and very importantly he has remained loyal to President Muhammadu Buhari. On two occasions in 2015 and 2019, as campaign Director-General, he delivered for President Muhammadu Buhari. You know the history of Borno, we have always gone along with the winning team. Do not follow any other person apart from Amaechi who is here. We must align ourselves with Amaechi, we must be with the man of the moment.” On his part, Amaechi described himself as the best candidate for the Presidency, adding that he is a true Nigerian who is detribalised and known to perform whatever task he takes on. The former minister urged the delegates to put their conscience first and vote for a candidate that is true to his word. During his visit to the Shehu of Borno, Alhaji Abubakar El-Kanemi, Amaechi said, “One of the reasons why you have a high level of insecurity is the fact that our past leaders had visited us with poverty. Politicians will be chasing you with money, but when you step out on that day (of the primary election), carry your conscience in your hand. Vote for me, because when you vote for me, you have transferred that responsibility, to partner with others to change the country. Trust me. Don’t share the votes. Step out that day, vote for me, and see the difference I will make.” “As Minister for Transportation, we started the rail line from Port Harcourt to Maiduguri, go and verify, they are working, go and check. We don’t have the loan yet, but with the little money we have I said ‘go and start work.’ I heard there is oil around Borno, if I’m made the President, I will look for that oil,” he said. Responding, Zulum said, “To me, power belongs to God. It is my prayer that Nigeria should get a good President. My prayer is for Almighty Allah to give us a good candidate that can take this nation to a greater height, a candidate that can deliver dividends of democracy to the good people of Nigeria.” Zulum stated that Amaechi’s advice to delegates to vote with conscience is very important, and “the people of Borno State will use their conscience to vote for a candidate that deserves to be voted for.” He, however, added that “President Muhammadu Buhari is also very important in this political equation. We are still waiting for him to say what he wants us to do.”  All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com