Like most people, you probably have more than one bank account. Maybe you have a checking account for your day-to-day purchases and a savings account for long-term investments. Or perhaps you keep some money in a separate account to help pay for emergency expenses. For most people, keeping track of these different accounts is time-consuming and confusing. It makes it difficult to track down where you stand financially; there are just so many things to remember, from transactions and budgeting to paying off your debts and keeping an eye on your credit score. That’s not all; you still have to remember endless PINs, worry about security, and stay on top of cash flow. Fortunately, there is a better way! You don’t have to worry about keeping track of all your accounts anymore. Raven offers a modern, convenient way to manage all of your finances in one place. With our secure app and web access, you have freed up your time to do whatever you want. We’ll do the rest: automatically rounding up your spending each day to have them updated with real-time data from each bank account. If anything changes with an account, it’ll be reflected on your Raven Finalytics dashboard immediately. Raven Finalytics is a feature on the App that combines all your bank accounts into one, making it easy to track your money and make financial decisions. Finalytics gives you access to all your data through your device, allowing you to pay bills and transfer money easily between accounts, all from one digital hub. Know Where You Stand Save time and relieve stress with Raven bank through a beautiful dashboard that shows you live the current value of your accounts and helps you sum up your total net worth Secure transfers to anyone you know. Make quick transfers to anyone using any of your linked bank accounts. You can stay on budget and plan your separately allocated funds without stress. Convenience In Your Bank Account Combine all your bank accounts into one large convenient transfer. Here, you will save time, effort, and the headache of moving small amounts of money from multiple banks to make a complete payment.”Just Raven it” Simplify Your Life Move your money between bank accounts with ease using Raven’s instant transfers and direct deposit. You can quickly balance your budget and make necessary goals for funds without the hassle of jumping through five or more separate bank apps or recalling and inserting five or more different passwords. The Ultimate All-In-One Keep track of how much money you spend on products, services, and utilities. This feature shows you your expenses at a glance—no need to waste time. Raven Finalytics will be a game-changer for you and many other people. Your current bank is great for financial matters, but the more bank accounts you open, the harder it is to see this. Raven Finalytics aims to add a level of convenience and ease of use that removes the need for banks to hold your hand during the money-transferring process. The future of bank interconnectivity may be here sooner than we think. Try Finalytics Now. Download the Raven App on Google Play or Apple Store, and let’s make your financial life less complicated.