Real estate experts have said there is a need to increase the real estate sector’s contribution to economic growth and create more employment opportunities. The experts spoke at the inauguration of a housing project tagged, OMINI, on the Lekki axis of Lagos State. The housing project was being carried out by Strongmas Residence and Development Limited. A real estate expert and Managing Director of MOA Planners Limited, Moses Ogunleye, said the real estate sector’s contribution to the nation’s economic growth was rising. He, however, said there was a need to increase further the sector’s contribution to the economy in order to enhance job creation and boost growth. Ogunleye, in his presentation, titled “The Impact of Real Estate in Economic Development”, said the real estate sector has for many years been playing a critical role in the development of many economies in the world. He cited the United States of America and Canada as good examples of countries where real estate business is contributing about 15 per cent and 19 per cent, respectively, to the GDP. “Globally, the real estate sector is one of the most profitable of every economy. It is one of the indices of measuring the level of economic growth of a society. As a sector, it mirrors the economic viability and sustainability of an economy, as well as poverty level,” he said. Ogunleye added that the Nigerian real estate sector had gone through a lot of development trends. “It is a profitable sector in which many individuals and corporate bodies have invested. The real estate contribution to the GDP of the country increases from the insignificant figure of two per cent in 2008 to about 4.0per cent in 2020” Meanwhile, the Chief Executive Officer, Strongmas Residence and Development Limited, the owners of the OMINI project, Michael Shobukola, has said the company is set to change the narratives in the industry, especially in the Lekki axis of Lagos State with quality and affordable houses. According to him, the rising cases of building collapse can be linked to the failure by building professionals to follow relevant rules and guidelines. Shobukola said, “We are a company that believes in premium preservation. We believe in doing things right and well. We believe in quality, giving people value for their money, integrity is paramount to us. People fail to follow the guidelines and engage professionals in executing every project; this is strategic to curbing the incidences of collapsed buildings,” he said. Shobukola, assured investors that Strongmas would deliver the housing project at Lekki within 18 months, adding that quality would not be compromised in the course of the project The Executive Director, Corporate Banking and Business Development, Keystone Bank, Adeyemi Ogunseye, said that the bank as a responsible institution in the financial industry was in partnership with Strongmas to enhance economic growth, among others. “He has done many projects which we partnered before. We know that he has the expertise and taste for quality. It is our small of contributing to GDP and economy development of the nation because the project will offer employment to so many people during and after development,” Ogunseye stated. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com