BUILDINGS are collapsing in Lagos State, Nigeria’s economic powerhouse, with frightening frequency and with the attendant human and economic losses. Thus, the state touted as the ‘Centre of Excellence’ has attained notoriety as a centre of building collapse. Undoubtedly, this reflects the failure of institutions to deliver on their mandates, corruption and weak governance. Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu should change this odious narrative and ensure effective preventive, control and punitive measures in the building sector. As Nigerians joined the rest of the world to celebrate the International Workers’ Day on May 1, 2022, a three-storey building collapsed at No. 32 Ibadan Street, Ebute Meta, Lagos, killing 10 persons. Six days after, a two-storey building on Chris Igadi Street, off Ago Palace Way, Isolo, Lagos, crumbled with many persons barely escaping death. On February 11, a three-storey building under construction at Akanbi Crescent, Yaba, collapsed onto the structure beside it. The biggest collapse in recent times occurred on November 1, 2021, when a high-rise block of luxury flats under construction in the highbrow Ikoyi neighbourhood came down, killing 42 persons, including the developer, prospective investors and workers on the site. Following the ensuing public outrage, the Lagos State Government, as usual, set up a panel to “investigate the remote and immediate causes and recommend appropriate sanctions.” It is a familiar, repetitive scenario of avoidable collapse, public outcry and government’s posturing, homilies and panels. Invariably, little is achieved, no evidence of lessons learnt; prosecutions are few. Often, the principal promoters of the faulty buildings go scot-free. In a particularly pathetic case in March 2019, 10 pupils and a pregnant woman were killed when Baden Schools at Itafaji Street, Lagos Island, collapsed, provoking global outrage. Over 30 persons also perished when a building being constructed by Lekki Gardens Estate Limited in Lekki collapsed in March 2016. In September 2014, a guesthouse within the Synagogue Church of All Nations in Ikotun, crumbled, killing 115 persons, 84 of whom were South Africans. Promptly, the state government set up an inquest. Over the last 20 years, Nigeria has witnessed a significant increase in building collapse, leading to loss of lives and property, and the displacement of families. Brookings Institution, a United States-based non-profit, revealed that between 1974 and 2019, over 221 buildings collapsed across various Nigerian cities, more than half occurring in Lagos. The report added, “Lagos experienced 167 reported cases between 2000 and 2021, 78.4 per cent of which were residential buildings, 12.8 per cent were commercial and 8.8 per cent were institutional buildings.” This is a major blight on the aspiring megacity and its administrators. The incidents displaced more than 6,000 households resulting in the loss of $3.2 billion worth of property, Brookings stated. Major identified causes of building collapse include bad design, faulty construction, overloading of the bearing capacities of buildings; failure to obtain approved drawings. Where such drawings exist, there is non-compliance; the use of quacks, use of defective materials, poor workmanship, non-adherence to the National Building Code, illegal conversion of existing structures, and alteration of approved building permits, as well as ineffective monitoring by regulatory agencies. As more buildings collapse in Lagos, the government appears helpless. Developers routinely break the rules. Though swiftly declared wanted after any collapse, the cases against the developers are usually not followed through conclusively. Prosecutions are few. Instead, some developers are shielded. For instance, in the Lekki Gardens incident, the trial judge, Sybil Nwaka, before whom the developer and seven others were arraigned, rejected a gratuitous out-of-court settlement between the government and the developer. The outraged judge noted that the “plea and sentence agreement” was drawn up in the absence of the families of victims who died in the incident. She faulted the amended charge arising from the settlement for leaving out the criminal aspects of the original charges preferred against the company. The collusion was so brazen. In the Ikoyi collapse, it emerged after the incident that the developer had intimidated officials of the Lagos State Building Control Agency, who tried to enforce the stop-work order when it was discovered that more floors had been added to the originally approved floors. After undue delays, the case of the Synagogue collapse was inconclusive until the death of the church founder. Therefore, the Lagos State Government has been careless, weak and vacillating in its handling of the building approval process, construction monitoring and enforcement of rules and regulations. Its agencies in charge of building construction do not rigidly enforce rules due to institutional weaknesses. Corruption thrives. But a court in Shanghai, China, in 2010, sentenced two developers to life imprisonment over the collapse of a building a year earlier in which one person died. In 2021, 20 persons bagged jail terms for their roles in the collapse of a hotel in Quanzhou that killed 29 persons and injured 50 others. Soil tests, which ought to be the prerequisite before construction starts, are hardly done, while stage certification of the construction process is hardly followed. Ironically, Lagos has robust laws, regulations and agencies, but it is weak and inconsistent in enforcement. A brief period of effective pubic enlightenment and enforcement has since given way to lax regulation. The Sanwo-Olu administration has not demonstrated the required strong political will to enforce its writ, especially when the elite are involved. Disasters provide an opportunity to put structures in place to ensure prevention and deterrence. The state’s emergency response capacity is admittedly effective and should be reinforced. Henceforth, every new building must by law have insurance cover. Culprits, including careless or complicit government officials, should be prosecuted. The government must take action on distressed buildings. A total overhaul of the agencies and ministries responsible for monitoring the construction process is required, while officials indicted in cases of building collapse must be prosecuted for manslaughter. The families of the deceased and injured victims should be adequately compensated. Sanwo-Olu must enforce building codes, undertake sweeping reforms and ensure the prosecution of complicit developers, professionals and regulators. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com