The National Association of Nigerian Students on Monday knocked a group of students for petitions against the Governor of Ogun State, Dapo Abiodun. The PUNCH reports that Abiodun has been enmeshed in issues surrounding his alleged criminal records in the United States of America. The PUNCH had also reported how the Department of State Services had reportedly arrested a blogger who published a story on the records of the governor. But NANS in a statement read by its Southwest Coordinator, Adegboye Olatunji, during a protest staged at the headquarters of the All Progressives Congress in Abuja on Monday said, “We condemn in its entirety and dissociate the leadership of NANS Zone D from the frivolous petition written against Prince Dr Dapo Abiodun co-signed by the duo of Victor C, Ezenagu and Comr. Chuks Okafor who claims to be the PRO and Senate President of NANS respectively. “Their call for prosecution and disqualification of Governor Dapo Abiodun from running for the second term in office as the Executive Governor of Ogun State through their petition to the Economic and Financial Crime Commission copied to the National Chairman of the All Progressive Congress is nothing but a ruse that cannot stand the test of time. “It is laughable that this group of jobless youths who claim to be student leaders tagging a committed Governor with different names is not recognised students leaders in Ogun state and South West. They are sponsored blackmailers, doing the bid of their paymasters to destabilise our dear state, Ogun state. “Finally, we wish to call on the leadership of the All Progressive Congress under your Chairmanship to disregard the frivolous petition. To substantiate our claim that H.E Dapo Abiodun enjoys the support of the constituted students bodies in Ogun state, a solidarity rally to commend the developmental efforts of the governor and pass a Vote of confidence on him was carried out with massive student turnout in the capital city of the state on Thursday, 19th May 2022. “We do hope that the facts and clarifications provided by this letter are effectively used by the party’s leadership”. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com