The 2021/22 season in Europe came to an end on Sunday, with a lot of memorable moments for some Nigerian players in the Top 5 leagues, writes Ebenezer Bajela From Zaidu Sanusi’s triumph in Portugal to Alex Iwobi’s Everton relegation survival in the English Premier League, there were plenty of excitements and pains for Nigerian players across the continent. While it was a season to forget for some Nigerians, some had a decent season and came out on top. PUNCH Sports Extra takes a look at the best XI Nigerian players who plied their trades in Europe, using the 4-4-2 formation… Goalkeeper Maduka Okoye (Sparta Rotterdam, goal) Despite conceding a whooping 40 goals from 30 appearances while in action for Rotterdam in the Eredivisie, Okoye remains Nigeria’s number one shot-stopper in Europe this season, ahead of Francis Uzoho, Adebayo Adeleye and Sebastian Osigwe. The Super Eagles star had a shaky performance at the beginning of the Dutch season and was heavily criticised for his poor performance at the 2021 AFCON, but the goalkeeper shone when it mattered most as he helped Rotterdam escape relegation with some amazing saves. Okoye had a decent season eventually, keeping seven clean sheets overall. The 22-year-old will be heavily missed by the Dutch club as he is set to join Watford when the transfer window opens. Defence Leon Balogun (Glasgow Rangers, centre-back) Balogun guided Rangers to the Scottish Cup title for the first time since 2009 to crown a great season for both the player and the Scottish club. Balogun helped the dethroned Scottish champions reach the Europa League final as he netted twice to steer Rangers to the final, where they lost to Eintracht Frankfurt on penalties. The 33-year-old defender was a mainstay for the Gers in the just-concluded season and made 37 appearances. He ended the 2021/22 season finishing second in the Scottish League and a Scottish Cup title in his cabinet.  Calvin Bassey (Glasgow Rangers, centre-back) Partnering Balogun in centre-back, Bassey also shone for Rangers. Despite the defeat in the final of the Europa League, the 22-year-old emerged as the best player on the night and was named Man-of-The-Match as well as being listed in the Team of the Tournament. Bassey was also named Rangers’ Best Young Player of the season after making a total of 50 appearances and registering six assists. Just like Balogun, he finished the season with a Scottish Cup. The Gers fullback showed great versatility playing at full-back and centre-back positions and filling in brilliantly. Zaidu Sanusi (Porto, left-back) Sanusi had a brilliant 2021/22 season for Porto and is undoubtedly Nigeria’s best achiever in Europe, hence the reason he made the best XI. Sanusi fended off competition from Brazilian Wendell to become Porto’s preferred left-back, making a total of 40 appearances in all competitions. The left-back’s winner against Benfica, off a counter-attack late in their league clash, handed Porto their 30th league title. He was also in action on Sunday as the Portuguese giants won the Portuguese Cup.  Ola Aina (Torino, right-back) Despite making fewer appearances and contributing little upfront, Aina made the right-back position ahead of Fenerbache’s Bright Osayi-Samuel, due to his outing both for Torino and the Super Eagles. The defender put on a solid display for Torino as the finished in 10th position in the Serie A after a poor start to the season. Booked only four times (with no red card) throughout the season, the 25-year-old didn’t put any foot wrong and was never at fault for any of the goals conceded by his side. Midfield Wilfred Ndidi (Leicester City, defensive midfield) Ndidi’s season was blighted by injuries but the midfielder remained a key player for the Foxes as his absence was badly felt. In a not too spectacular season, the 25-year-old still managed to make 31 appearances, scored two goals and had an assist in all competitions. Prior to his injury the midfielder made 60 tackles, had five shots blocked, made 42 interceptions and won 135 duels. Joe Aribo (Glasgow Rangers, offensive midfield) Aribo’s spectacular season had seen him being linked with a move to England, with Crystal Palace, Aston Villa and Newcastle all interested in the midfielder. It was one of the player’s best seasons as he had a 19-goal contribution (nine goals and 10 assists) for Rangers, with his strike in the Europa League final his last for the season. One of manager Giovanni van Bronckhorst’s most trusted men and an integral part of the squad, Aribo made 57 appearances – the highest number by a Rangers player last season – and had his 2021/22 campaign rewarded with the Scottish Cup. Wingers Dennis Emmanuel (Watford, right wing) In a season where not even two of the most experienced managers, Roy Hodgson and Claudio Ranieri, could save Watford from being relegated, Dennis was the shining star during their darkest nights. The Nigerian enjoyed his debut season in the English Premier League after joining the Hornets from Club Brugge last summer. He ended the season with 10 goals and six assists but it wasn’t enough from stopping Watford from going down. On a personal note, the 24-year-old had an impressive season in England and fared better in the right flank ahead of Villarreal’s Samuel Chukwueze. Moses Simon (Nantes, left wing) Simon had 14 goals contribution (six goals and eight assists) in the French League in the 2021/22 season to make him one of the country’s most outstanding players in the outgoing season. However, the winger’s most memorable moment was helping Nantes win the Coupe de France after 22 years. It was a great season for the forward, who won several individual awards (player of the week and month). He was also nominated for the Marc-Vivien Foé award, which was won by Ivory Coast’s Seko Fofana. Strikers Taiwo Awoniyi (Union Berlin, second striker) Striker Awoniyi finished the season as Nigeria’s top scorer in Europe’s top five leagues with 15 Bundesliga goals and 20 across all competitions to help Union Berlin finish fourth in the German topflight and seal a Europa League spot for next season. It was a fine season for the former Liverpool striker and his best in his entire career. Victor Osimhen (Napoli, top striker) Despite Napoli’s inability to end their 30-year wait for the Serie A title, Osimhen, on a personal note, had a great season and was on target on 18 occasions and also had six assists in 32 games in all competitions. A key figure in Luciano Spelleti’s squad, the 23-year-old was one of the reasons the Parthenopeans finished in third position in the league and will be competing in the UEFA Champions League next season. Osimhen also claimed the award for the best young player in Italy, in what was a descent campaign for the rampaging forward. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com