An Assistant Superintendent of Police, Ukam Efut, has been shot dead at a security checkpoint at Agwa in the Oguta Local Government Area of Imo State. PUNCH Metro gathered that the victim was killed on Tuesday by gunmen. After shooting the officer dead, his killers reportedly chopped off his private parts and fled with them. A community source told our correspondent that the gunmen met the cop and his colleagues at the checkpoint and opened fire on them. He said while Efut died on the spot, the other cops were lucky to have escaped. The source said, “Unknown gunmen killed a police officer at Agwa police divisional headquarters, Agwa, Oguta LGA, on Tuesday, May 3, 2022, around 4pm. The deceased officer, Ukam Efut, and two others were at a certain checkpoint, as usual, where they mounted a roadblock and were collecting money from illegal oil dealers. “Ukam, the deceased officer, was shot dead and his private parts cut off by his killers. One of the other two officers sustained injuries on his face. “The incident was really unfortunate as they made away with the man’s private parts. The community is quiet now.” The Chairman of the community, Ekene Onyejiekwe, told our correspondent that the remains of the slain cop had been deposited in a morgue in Owerri. He said, “I received a distress call from the DCO of the police headquarters that a group of policemen had been attacked. “Before then, some of my people coming back from the farm told me about the incident first. The DCO asked me to assist in removing the slain cop. On arrival at the scene of the incident, I saw the DPO, DCO and the area commander. The area commander instructed that the remains of the fallen police officer be taken to a morgue. “Members of the community and security operatives took the body to the morgue in Owerri.” The police spokesperson for the command, Micheal Abattam, had yet to react to the incident as of press time. But a police source said the slain officer was newly posted to the area. The source said, “It is not up to two months that he was transferred from Abia State to the area. He was the administrative officer and had two years to his retirement before he was murdered. It is really painful.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com