Nasarawa APC chairman says delegates list doctoredSpeaking at the party’s secretariat in Lafia on Thursday night, Mamman said as a result of the changes made in the delegates list, the State House of Assembly aspirants in the affected constituencies were withdrawing from the race because the list presented to them at the venues of the primary election had strange names. He described the action as undemocratic, which is capable of breeding disaffection, tension and disunity in the party, adding that the doctored delegates list will not be accepted in the state. He said, “The emergence of Senator Abdullahi Adamu as APC National Chairman was greeted with popular acclamation by teeming members of the party because of his experiences in politics. “But the party in Nasarawa state is saddened by the discovery that the official and authentic list of the delegates sent to the National Secretariat for the party’s primaries has been completely changed or doctored in a number of local government areas of the state. “We are also saddened that the National Secretariat has truncated the conduct of the primaries by directing the Congress Committee to stop the process midway and we find this inexplicable. “In the light of the above unfortunate developments, the APC in Nasarawa state, will not tolerate this unwarranted doctoring of the official delegates list sent to the national secretariat. “We consider this as undemocratic, capable of breeding disaffection and tension in the party. Therefore, the party will not accept any list outside the list of delegates who emerged after the APC congress in the state. “The national secretariat should therefore in the interest of peace, unity, harmony and progress of the party, ensure that the wishes of the law-abiding and loyal party members are respected.” Mamman while announcing the suspension of the APC House of Assembly primary election in the state until further notice, clarified that the delegates list for the just concluded governorship primary election was not doctored. He appealed to all aspirants and members of the party to remain calm as measures are being taken towards addressing the matter. Meanwhile, eight aspirants vying for the House of Assembly seat in the Lafia North constituency, have withdrawn from the race, lamenting that the irregularities in the process were much. One of the aspirants, Eunice Kigbu, told our correspondent that they were unable to access the delegates list and accused the incumbent House member, Muhammed Alkali, of collaborating with security operatives to stop them from protesting the irregularities. “We reported the matter to Governor Abdullahi Sule for prompt action but he referred us to the State APC chairman to address the issue. “The State APC chairman promised us that he will check the list and revert back to us but up till this moment, we are yet to get any feedback from him and that is why we are withdrawing from the contest. We may have to seek justice in court”, Kigbu said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com