Nigeria’s Monetary Policy Rate (lending rate) of 11.5 per cent is among the highest in emerging economies, findings by our correspondent have shown. The monetary policy rate, referred to as repo rate in South Africa or the prime lending rate in other countries, is the benchmark interest rate usually set by the central bank of each country. Nigeria’s rate was reduced from 12.5 per cent to 11.5 per cent in September 2020 and has remained so till the last Monetary Policy Committee meeting. Other countries have kept theirs at a single-digit rate to pursue growth amid inflationary pressure in a post-COVID-era, but Nigeria’s has remained at a double-digit rate. South Africa’s rate was 4.25 per cent in March 2022, while Namibia’s lending rate as at February 2022 was four per cent. Similarly, Zambia’s rate is nine per cent while Botswana was 1.65 per cent. Other emerging countries are also low. Vietnam’s was 7.8 per cent; India, 8.80 per cent; UAE, 4.75 per cent, while Uganda is 6.5 per cent. However, Brazil’s and Kenya’s are higher than Nigeria’s at 11.75 per cent and 12.17 per cent respectively. While Nigeria’s benchmark interest rate is 11.5 per cent, deposit money banks charge between 15 and 30 per cent for loans as they factor in cost of operations. The Manufacturers Association of Nigeria said that the average rate at which its members borrowed money from banks was 20.75 per cent in 2020 and 21.25 per cent in 2019. “It is important for the CBN to carry out a coordinated reduction in the monetary policy rate and lending rate,” MAN said in a statement. “It is also critical to provide a credit guarantee for industrial loans from commercial banks,” it added. Evans Medicals is one of the examples of firms that went under as a result of Nigeria’s lending system. Prior to 2017, the pharmaceutical company had been gearing up for the World Health Organisation’s prequalification, which was to position it for global competitiveness. But in 2017, a court ruled that its assets be taken over by First Bank of Nigeria Limited and the defunct Skye Bank due to bad debt. Apart from borrowing at a high-interest rate, the compounding penalties for defaulting made repayment of the loan difficult, the correspondent found. Same as Multi Trex Integrated Foods, which was taken over by AMCON for its inability to repay loans borrowed from banks. The situation could have been different had the companies been located in South Africa with a repo rate of four per cent or Saudi Arabia with a lending rate of 1.47 per cent. According to the President, Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Michael Olawale-Cole, “the Monetary Policy Committee of the CBN will be faced with a tough policy choice of boosting economic growth and tackling inflation for the most of 2022.” He noted that the policy dilemma would put the committee in a very tight position in the coming months and might propel it to cautiously retain its policy stance in the first half of the year 2022. An entrepreneur and CEO of Zubnol Limited, Chukwubuike Nnoli, said there was a need to ensure that small and medium businesses had access to cheap credit to boost the economy amid the pandemic and Russia’s invasion of Ukraine. “It is not good statistics. It is a pity that we lack huge development funds in Nigeria. Even the Development Bank of Nigeria lends at double-digit rates, how then do you expect small businesses to have access to growth funds?” he asked. “If you borrow at 20 per cent, how will you be able to make a profit in 12 months and return the principal and the interest?” he asked. The Central Bank of Nigeria said that consumer credit rose by 4.23 per cent to N39.9tn in January 2021, from N2.1tn in November 2021. However, some SMEs said they were not accessing the money. Chief Executive of Jon Tudy Interbiz and former Chairman of LCCI SME Group, Jon Kachikwu, said, “We are not getting the money. We hear a lot about the money, but the banks are not lending. The conditions for accessing them are sometimes scary.” The Chief Executive Officer of Centre for the Promotion of Private Enterprise, Dr Muda Yusuf, told The PUNCH in an interview that “Micro and small businesses have high difficulty accessing funds because they are perceived as high risk. Also, collaterals are tougher and many of them cannot provide such.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com