The Nigeria Customs Service has said it will review depreciation on vehicle duty as it begins the rollout of its Vehicles Identification Number platform for the electronic valuation of vehicles  on Friday (today). According to the Controller Valuation of the Service, Comptroller Anthony Udeze, the depreciation value of vehicles has not been done properly prior to now. He added that a lot of variables had also been considered as the commission sets out to redeploy its VIN platform. He stated that the platform would present a uniform duty for all stakeholders in the industry. He disclosed this during a sensitisation meeting in preparation for the redeployment of the VIN platform that was held in Apapa on Thursday. He said, “We have looked at the various values of vehicles. Look at the ones here and you will see the human touch that has been applied to them. The value before that led to the protest was not properly depreciated. “So, the committee have applied the auto policy and done a linear depreciation from 2021 to 2013. It must be stated at this point that the provision of over 12years of age is still applicable. So, if you are bringing a vehicle that is over 12 years, the value you are going to see is the value for 2013. “We have given a human face to the values, we have considered all options, accidented vehicles, salvage vehicles were all built-in. What we are presenting today is uniformity and unification of values from all the area commands. “And today, we are here to showcase and sensitise all stakeholders that the VIN valuation has come to stay. We are rolling out VIN valuation over the weekend and by Monday if you are capturing on Saturday, you are going to apply the VIN valuation.” He further assured stakeholders that they were going to enjoy the platform. According to him, the duty value of cars would become favourable for players in the industry as it has taken into consideration the depreciation value of imported used cars. While speaking at the event, the Customs Area Controller in charge of Apapa Command, Yusuf Malanta said the commission needed to evolve with the world, and embrace automation. He stated that checks, control, and mistakes will quickly be discovered on the platform. He disclosed that automation was very essential, and the vehicle valuation platform was not out of place. He added that with the platform, agents can sit at home and clear their vehicles. He said, “Now some agents can sit down in the comfort of the bedroom and process clearance of their cargoes. The world is going digital. “The new digital PAAR is another good development. Nigeria is not going to stay behind watching people take advantage of digital technology for business facilitation. If there is anything we need to adjust, let us know we will adjust it.” The Comptroller of the Ports and Terminal Multipurpose Limited command, Festus Okun, added, “The Customs service has just built into our processes and procedures the basic principles of taxation which entails uniformity, fairness, predictability, and a host of others. With this VIN valuation, there would be uniformity and predictability.” According to the acting National President of Association of Nigerian Licensed Customs Agents, Kayode Farinto, agents need to comply so that the clearance processes will be fast. He added that auto-release is an agent right and customs must address it to ensure the process runs smoothly. He said the indiscriminate increase in the Pre-Arrival Assessment Reports by the NCS has also created room for stakeholders to circumvent its process. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com