I lost my mother recently. And the experience was one with lessons and regrets. The journey towards the end of one’s life is a lonely one. Despite being surrounded by some of us (her children), the battle to hang onto life or quietly take the hand that death extended was hers to fight alone! We may never know the emotional/mental battles that raged within her at those moments. Until you lose a loved one, you don’t actually realise how much we take ‘’the present moment’’ for granted. The major regret that hits you at the loss of a loved one is either how much time you didn’t spend with them or how little you utilised the moments you spent with them. It’s important to live every moment with the end in mind, sometimes. That way, you don’t really take issues more seriously than you should be. And your major response to a lot of life’s issues begins to centre on “is this really important?” No loss is less painful! The most insensitive thing to do to anybody who has just lost a loved one is to remind them of the age of the deceased as if that invalidates their loss! No matter what age a loved one dies, the void is real and so is the pain. Waking up to the realisation that someone you have known all your life is no more is a loss of a lifetime! If the emotional connection was there, the tears wouldn’t stop brimming. So, don’t even force yourself to “stop crying.” Only TIME and fond memories can help you, here! Life is but fickle. How do you explain the reality of someone walking into the hospital with their two legs but it’s a dead body that is brought back home for burial? Let’s begin to see a miracle as also being to the hospitals and back home not in a coffin, especially when you have had a firsthand experience of how much the systemic failure tells on our health system. Don’t tire of doing your best for loved ones. People don’t live forever. They will be dead for much longer than they have been alive. It is not a sense of relief but more of “I wish I did more for them” that will most likely greet your emotions when they are no more. As much as possible, find the time to take pictures when you feel good. One day, one of those will actually be the picture that your obituary will carry. The picture that’s on mama’s obituary was the one that a sister-in-law took of her at a random moment! Start NOW to do the things that are important to you while you are still alive and can influence the outcome. Nothing is in your control anymore, the moment you breathe your last. And the living can only accommodate a dead person’s wish that is most at home with their personal interest! As far back as over 20 years ago, mama routinely pointed at the spot she prefers as her physical resting place. Death is a thought that most of us would rather push so far away from the mind as if the mere thought or mention of it makes it a reality. However, my mother’s life taught me that if you live well, you don’t really fear when that curtain draws. It is important we make peace with the reality of that inevitable end and then, focus the rest of our energy on striving to become a better version of ourselves daily. To avoid regret, do and say and express every good thing you can possibly do and say and express to those you love, because you’re going to find there isn’t always time to whisper goodbye.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com