Governor Bala Mohammed of Bauchi State on Wednesday said he would support whoever emerges as the presidential flag bearer of the Peoples Democratic Party from the party’s primary. The PUNCH had reported that the governor, who is also one of the party’s presidential aspirants, and a former Senate President, Bukola Saraki, were endorsed by the Northern Elders’ Forum led by Prof. Ango Abdullahi as Northern consensus candidates. Among the screened party’s presidential aspirants were former Vice President Atiku Abubakar; former Senate Presidents, Bukola Saraki and Pius Anyim; former governor of Anambra State, Peter Obi; Bauchi and Sokoto State Governors, Bala Mohammed and Aminu Tambuwal. Others were River State Governor, Nyesom Wike; publisher of Ovation, Dele Momodu; former banker, Mohammed Hayatu-Deen; pharmacist, Sam Ohabunwa, Akwa Ibom State Governor, Emmanuel Udom and the only female presidential aspirant, Olivia Tariela as well as former governor of Ekiti State, Ayo Fayose. But Mohammed, while speaking with journalists shortly after paying a private visit to the former governor of Kaduna state, Senator Ahmed Makarfi, who he described as “our leader and major stakeholder of our party”, said he would render his support to whoever emerged as the party flag bearer in a transparent, credible primary of the party. This, the governor said, was to ensure that the party reclaimed the presidency from the “inefficient” All Progressives Congress-led regime of the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), after his tenure in 2023. Mohammed said he was optimistic that Makarfi and other leading lights of the party would do the right thing to ensure that the party come out intact after the convention. The governor described the worsening insecurity situation across the country as unacceptable, saying that the PDP that governed the country for 16 years, would reclaim power and rescued Nigeria from imminent collapse. Mohammed said, “We have a tradition as a party on how leaders, as well as political offices, are shared. Don’t forget, we led this country for sixteen years. If you look at the previous conventions, we have always come out intact. This is because it is not about individual aspirations. “So, what we want to see as presidential aspirants and delegates is to have credible, acceptable, and transparent primaries. And we are ready to work with whoever emerges other than being selfish. “So, more than ever before, the current PDP leadership has allowed each of the candidates to go out and canvass for votes. This is what we have been doing but we have the firm belief that at the end of the day, one person must emerge as flag bearer of our great party. Whoever emerges, if it is not me, I am ready to support him.” On the disturbing security situation across the country, the governor declared that under the  16-year-old administration of the PDP, Nigerians never had it so bad as under the current regime of the APC government. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com