As the management of the Nigeria Customs Service began the redeployment of the Vehicles Identification Number for valuation of imported vehicles on Monday, agents operating in the nation’s maritime domain have disagreed with the agency over the platform, saying that it is riddled with challenges. Some of the agents, who spoke to our Correspondent on Monday while assessing the platform after the redeployment, complained that the values were still very high even as they were unable to access the platform. The PUNCH had reported that the Nigeria Customs Service, in a letter dated May 17, 2022, had said the suspended policy would be re-introduced on Friday, May 20, 2022. As such, the agency said there would be a sensitisation programme for stakeholders in the clearance value chain in preparation for the redeployment. Speaking shortly after the redeployment, the Public Relations Officer of the National Association of Government Approved Freight Forwarders, Ports & Terminal Multipurpose Limited chapter, Thomas Alor, said that clearing of vehicles at the command had dropped from 80 to 30 per cent due to this and other challenges. “This VIN valuation will not work because the duties it is bringing out on vehicles are too high. With what we are seeing today, it is likely there will be another strike action if care is not taken. We now pay N1.2million for clearing of 2002 Toyota Corolla. This is something we used to clear at N650, 000. No duty has been issued; delivery of cars has been reduced, and transactions have dropped today from like 80 percent to 30percent. We are just stagnant here for now.” Also speaking, the Tin Can Chapter Chairman of the African Association of Professional Freight Forwarders and Logistics of Nigeria, Godfrey Nwaosu, said that the only people who were privileged to get their values were those that came earlier. “There are issues here and there, except for people that applied and were captured in early hours of today (Monday). These are people who are being attended to. Apart from them, there has been confusion everywhere and attempts to get in touch with Customs were not fruitful. They claim it was network but people want to access jobs.  The portal rejects inputs, including that of the standard VIN. The challenges there is that there are hitches for the valuations to be processed, but they claim it is a technical issue, that is, a network problem.” Another freight forwarder, Lawal Wasiu, said, “The  VIN is not working right now. It is a new development; they were supposed to test-run it first to see if there were challenges. The server for VIN is not going through. The values that VIN is giving out is still very high and outrageous. Customs are trying to validate the system but it not going through, so for now, manual valuation is still ongoing.” In his response, the Public Relations Officer, PTML command of the Service, Muhammad Yakubu, said there were no challenges with the platform as claimed by the agents. He said nobody had come to his office to complain about any challenge. “There are no challenges and, besides, there is nothing you can do without encountering challenges, whether you like it or not. If you start anything, it comes with challenges and nobody has come up to tell us about challenges.” Explaining further, he said that agents were not following the procedure in the proper way. “The only thing we discussed today was about the F06 Code. If you want to put your VIN valuation, you have to add the procedure code and the code is 000 for standard VIN. And once you put your procedure code for standard VIN, which is 000, if it is not a standard VIN it will show you that it is not standard VIN. In other words, it will show you an error message.” According to him, “People are not doing that. They just put that code of non-standard VIN, which is 846, and once they do that it generates another thing differently. But you have to punch it, take it out, attach your document and submit to the Customs Area Controller for approval.” Yakubu also said that the Service was working towards addressing some of the teething challenges. “And we are still working on that.  The procedure code for non-standard VIN is 846, but you cannot just use that code like that because people can manipulate it. You can have a standard VIN and then manipulate it to 846. We are not going to accept that. If you do that, you have to write to the CAC who will approve and send to valuation to show that it is not a standard VIN. That is what we are doing for now.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com