The metaverse will add $40bn to Nigeria and other Sub-Saharan African countries’ Gross Domestic Product, according to a report by Meta. The report disclosed that the metaverse would add an estimated $3tn to the global economy in a decade if its adoption and growth are like that of mobile technology. The report titled, ‘The Potential Global Economic Impact of the metaverse,’ referred to the metaverse as an embodied Internet. It described metaverse as a set of interconnected digital spaces, including immersive XR experiences that combine the digital and physical worlds. It added that individuals can easily move between different spaces and experiences as well as interact and collaborate with other people who are not in the same physical space in the metaverse. The metaverse is expected to support or enable augmented reality, virtual reality, mixed reality, blockchain, and non-fungible tokens. According to the report, these technologies, which will form the backbone of the metaverse, are already in use around the world by businesses and creators today. The report stated, “Estimating the economic impact of the metaverse presents substantial challenges. “Economic theories provide some insights into how new innovations can be expected to evolve and impact economies, but as with all innovations, it is impossible to predict all of the areas in which metaverse technologies will be used, the extent and timing of their adoption, the innovations that will be developed that build upon the metaverse, and all of their associated economic impacts. “Put simply, there is no “metaverse” to measure as of today. Yet, rather than wait for some point in the future, we can apply existing tools and data from related sectors, technologies, and consumer behaviors to create a potential analogue for the metaverse.” According to it, the metaverse is expected to change how humans use the Internet the way mobile technology combined existing technologies such as phones, the Internet, cameras, and mp3 players and changed the use of the Internet. It added, “If we assume that metaverse adoption were to begin today, in 2022, then we can also estimate the metaverse’s potential contribution to GDP in dollars and compare it to industry projections of the potential size of the metaverse. Our model implies that if metaverse adoption began today, it would have a contribution to global GDP of $3.01tn (measured in 2015 U.S. dollars) in 2031. “This estimate lies within the range of existing industry projections, which include estimates ranging from $800bn to $2tn over the next few years, which tend to focus on near-term impacts on gaming, social media, e-commerce, and live entertainment, for example, to long-term estimates ranging from approximately $3tn to over $80tn.” According to the report, the metaverse is already in existence in Africa. It said, Africarare — referred to as ‘the first South African metaverse’— launched in October 2021. Africarare is a digital land, Ubuntuland, and offers immersive VR experiences including a marketplace for art as stated in the report. In February 2022, MTN Group, announced it had purchased 144 plots of virtual land in Ubuntuland, becoming the first African company to invest in the metaverse. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com