The World Health Organisation and the United Nations Children’s Fund, have said the five countries with the largest measles outbreaks are Somalia, Yemen, Nigeria, Afghanistan, and Ethiopia. A joint statement issued by WHO and UNICEF noted that the global reported cases of measles had increased by 79 per cent in the first two months of 2022, adding that it could give room for the spread of other related diseases. According to the report, the COVID-19 endemic has thrown out of gear, global measles vaccine programs, thereby, posing a huge health risk, particularly for millions of unvaccinated children around the world. The agencies, therefore, called on governments of concerned countries to intensify vaccination campaigns whilst bridging the palpable gaps in immunisation coverage across the globe. Director-General of WHO, Dr Tedros Ghebreyesus said, “The COVID-19 pandemic has interrupted immunisation services; health systems have been overwhelmed, and we are now seeing a resurgence of deadly diseases including measles. “For many other diseases, the impact of these disruptions to immunisation services will be felt for decades to come.” The agencies stressed that the pandemic-related disruptions, increasing inequalities in access to vaccines, and the diversion of resources from routine immunisation had vulnerably exposed many children to measles and other vaccine-preventable diseases. The statement also affirmed that nearly 7,338 measles cases were reported globally in January and February 2022, compared to the 9,665 reported during the first two months of 2021. “Apart from its direct effect on the body, which can be lethal, the measles virus also weakens the immune system and makes a child more vulnerable to other infectious diseases like pneumonia and diarrhoea,” it said. UNICEF Executive Director, Catherine Russell, noted, “Measles is more than a dangerous and potentially deadly disease. “It is also an early indication that there are gaps in our global immunisation coverage, gaps vulnerable children cannot afford.” “It is encouraging that people in many communities are beginning to feel protected enough from COVID-19 to return to more social activities. “But doing so in places where children are not receiving routine vaccination creates the perfect storm for the spread of a disease like measles,” he added. The report revealed that most of the measles cases reported in the last 12 months were mainly in Africa and the East Mediterranean region, with five countries topping the list. Copyright PUNCH All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com