The Interim Administrator of the Presidential Amnesty Programme , Col. Milland Dikio (retd.), has charged persons who were aggrieved by reason of alleged marginalisation or environmental deprivation in the Niger Delta to adopt dialogue and negotiations to resolve disputes in the region. He noted that the use of intellectual property, negotiations and networking remained the most potent tools of seeking attention to issues of deprivation. Dikio said this in a statement signed by his Special Adviser on Media, Nneotabase Egbe, and made available to newsmen in Port Harcourt. The statement said Dikio spoke at an event to mark the 50th birthday anniversary of the former board Chairman of the National Oil Spill Detection and Response Agency, Maj. Lancelot Anyanya (retd.), in Abuja. Dikio further said the Niger Delta leaders should strive to be part of the boardroom negotiations, rather than resorting to street agitations that may lead to negative consequences. He praised Anyanya for contributing to the peace and development of the Niger Delta, saying his administration as the PAP boss had been largely successful due to the vital role he was playing. “When I was given this appointment, I prayed that I wanted to have destiny helpers and one of the destiny helpers God sent my way was Lancelot Anyanya. Our relationship started in 1990, but over the years, we have kept fate and kept in touch. “I remember that when I chose to retire from the army, he was one of the people I told. And so, without giving away straight secrets, if you want things done, look for Lancelot. “What connects us is our passion to make Niger Delta the safest place to live and do business in Nigeria. And taking a cue from the play ‘Tekena’ (a story of the Niger Delta), we intend to do this by dialogue, building bridges, negotiations and networking.” Dikio further said Anyanya passed through all the stages of the Nigerian Army and was adequately prepared for the challenges of life, which he said made him succeed. “One of the strong points of Lancelot is that he understands what is called vertical and horizontal relationships. That is very important. “He is a man who has big aspirations, not just for himself, but for his generation. He is a friend of influencers,” the Amnesty boss stated. The Bayelsa State Governor, Senator Douye Diri, his predecessor, Seriake Dickson, and Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Boss Mustapha, were among dignitaries who paid tributes to Anyanya at the event. Others were a former Deputy Speaker of the House of Representatives, Prince Chibudom Nwuche; former national chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party, Prince Uche Secondus, among others. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com