The All Progressives Congress in Ekiti State has rallied support for the presidential ambition of Governor Kayode Fayemi, to achieve the dream of national greatness. The party described Fayemi’s May 4 presidential declaration as a “mother of all declarations,” which should be taken into serious consideration while deciding who flies the flag of the party for the 2023 presidential election.” The Ekiti APC, in a statement by its Publicity Secretary, Segun Dipe, on Saturday titled, “Presidential Declaration: APC lauds Fayemi, assures he will finish well as governor,” said the governor had revealed “his vision of a Nigeria where everyone would rally around for the unfinished work of national greatness that will take the country to its next phase.” The party, however, gave assurance that notwithstanding the degree of his commitment to the presidential ambition, Fayemi would not derail from his determination to finish well and strong in his current second term as the governor of Ekiti State. They said, “Fayemi’s success in the state is sine qua non to stepping up to the higher and more challenging presidential status. The governor would not toy with his resume of quality service and his legacy cannot be disparaged by any form of propaganda.” Dipe, who lampooned the Peoples Democratic Party in the state for describing Fayemi’s declaration as “declaration of failure,” said, “The PDP was only lamenting its constant defeat by the APC and remains dazed by the dizzying height Fayemi constantly attains.” “I do not believe that development is achieved by putting all major projects in one’s backyards. We cannot achieve anything by developing one area and leaving others. That is not development. All areas have to grow together and connect with one another. That is the way to achieve even development, social balance and political stability.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com