A former Chairman of the Nigeria Insurers Association, Gus Wiggle, has enlightened Nigerians on the need to have smooth claims payment. Wiggle, who is a well-experienced insurance technocrat and founder of Carefirst Consult, a firm established to pioneer a new outlook in claims management to strengthen the value chain in the insurance industry, said this in a statement entitled, ‘Claims Management in Nigeria, Our Vision’. He said the #EndSARS riot inspired the firm, coupled with many policyholders not knowing the extent of their insurance coverage. “Many people are just buying insurance to satisfy the law without understanding that they should report the incidents or accidents to their insurance companies, and resort to settling many claims from their pockets while denying the insurance industry of data capturing of claims on our roads, construction sites and product liability,” Wiggle said. The new company, according to Wiggle, would drive and deliver a new experience for uninsured victims of accidents, policyholders, insurance companies and corporate institutions. Specifically, he said, Carefirst Consult would assist victims of motor or workplace accidents to get compensations against the insurers of the motor vehicles or their principals against their liability insurance policies. Their services would also include assisting policyholders who were either denied payment, or offered a settlement that was unreasonably low and unacceptable. Carefirst Consult, he added, would undertake claims investigation, portfolio audit for corporate institutions, and verify the actual risk exposure and risk classifications. He said a comprehensive and quality insurance audit had been found to be beneficial to corporate institutions, thereby saving time, money and resources at the time of any eventuality. According to him, in the UK, there were now companies outsourcing their claims management to third party companies to save cost or for efficiency. The 2020 COVID-19 lockdown brought about companies exploring options for doing business differently and outsourcing claims management was one of them, he said. Wiggle also noted that, “Given my knowledge of the working process in an underwriting company, insurance companies have neglected a significant portion of their recoveries from claims and lose lots of inflows that should enhance their revenue line and reduce their claims cost. “Carefirst Consult will go further to provide subrogation services/local facultative claims services to help reduce or eliminate this outlay by engaging with other parties to recover whatever is due to the company that engage our services.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com