The Nasarawa State Governor, Abdullahi Sule, has condemned the killing of Deborah Yakubu, a 200 level student of Shehu Shagari College of Education in Sokoto State, describing the act as a crime not only against the Christian community but humanity at large. Governor Sule condemned the act of killing the student during a security meeting at the Government House in Lafia on Monday. He also appealed to the state chapter of the Christian Association of Nigeria not to join the planned protest on May 22, 2022, by the Christian community across the country, saying that both the Federal and Sokoto State governments were taking steps to address the matter. He said, “The killing of Deborah Samuel (Yakubu) is very unfortunate. My administration is taking steps to protect the people and to ensure that a similar thing does not happen in Nasarawa State. “As you all know, Mr President has condemned it, the national assembly has condemned the killing, our Sultan has also condemned. CAN has condemned this killing, the Northern governors have also come together to collectively condemn the killing. “And fortunately, some of the people who are responsible for this killing have been arrested and we are going to follow to the conclusion of the matter. It’s unfortunate, very unfortunate, the way and the manner that the promising girl was killed. “So, I want to sympathise with the families of the late Deborah Samuel (Yakubu) as well as to the Christian community and humanity as a whole. “Because what has happened to her is not only against the Christian community, but against humanity. And we have to take it as such to make sure that we don’t entertain and encourage it in any way. “And I want to appeal to the leaders of CAN in the state not to join the protest because of the fragile nature of Nasarawa State and the fear that hoodlums may eventually hijack the peaceful protest and to throw the state into anarchy.” The governor explained that another reason for the meeting was to commend security agencies in the state for the successes they recorded in curbing banditry in the Kokona, Nasarawa Eggon, Wamba, Karu and Akwanga Local Government Areas. “I want to also appreciate the security agencies for their commitment and support for my administration, because they have effectively tackled some problems caused by the influx of herdsmen from Niger and Zamfara States to places like Bakin Kogi, Kuruwa village in the Nasarawa Local Government Area”, the governor added. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com