The former Governor of Sokoto State, Senator Aliyu Wamakko, has again emerged as the flag bearer of the All Progressives Congress for Sokoto North senatorial district. The former governor emerged alongside incumbent senator representing Sokoto South, Danbaba Dambuwa; and Alhaji Ibrahim Lamido, all unopposed. Speaking while declaring the results, the electoral committee, led by its Secretary, Barrister Wale Ojo and member, Dr. Tona Famadewa, said Wamakko, the sole aspirant, picked the party’s ticket unopposed following affirmation by 420 delegates from across eight Local Government Areas that comprise the zone. The lawmaker, who is also the leader of the APC in the state, emerged for a third term in the Senate on the party’s platform. The motion to endorse Wamakko’s emergence through affirmation was moved by one of the delegates, Babangida Dantsoho and seconded by Aliyu Sabo from the Kware LGA. Speaking shortly after his emergence, Senator Wamakko expressed appreciation and commended the delegates for their sense of political resilience, party loyalty, and steadfast support for his success and other party aspirants. While urging them to keep the party’s spirit high by sustaining the tempo, the former Sokoto state governor reiterated his continued meaningful representation in the Senate chamber for the advancement and prosperity of the people of Sokoto state. He said, “Our party is our pride, and our members are our source of political inspiration.” Also speaking, the state chairman of APC, Isah Achida, noted the smooth conduct of the party’s primaries in the state. Achida commended the party and electoral committee for conducting free and fair exercise across the board that saw the emergence of candidates in the state. “It’s now time for us to come together as a united, strong and purposeful party towards attaining victory in the 2023 polls in the coming months,” he said. In a related development, Nasiru Shehu Bodinga has emerged as the winner of the party’s House of Representatives primary for the Bodinga/Tureta/Dange Shuni Federal Constituency. The election was characterised by violence and accusations, amid a chaotic situation that led to the discharge of canisters following a protest by some delegates from the Tureta local government, who alleged a change in the list of delegates with non-delegates. He was declared the winner after defeating four other aspirants, including a female, Hajiya Sa’adat Yusuf Mohammed, in the contest held at the party office in Bodinga, headquarters of the constituency. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com