THE criminals hiding under the cover of a self-determination agitation to terrorise the South-East region horrified the country on Sunday with the gruesome murder of a pregnant woman, Harira Jubril, 32, and four children in Orumba South Local Government Area of Anambra State. The outrage reverberated across the country and beyond for its maniacal savagery. Not only was Harira nine months pregnant, her innocent children travelling with her were also mercilessly killed. This is terrorism at its worst. The President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), and Governor Chukwuma Soludo must fulfil their promises to apprehend and bring the culprits to justice. Violence in the South-East perpetrated by ‘unknown gunmen’ claiming allegiance to the separatist Indigenous People of Biafra and its armed wing, the Eastern Security Network, is becoming more random and brutal. They must be stopped. Even for a population traumatised by terrorism, mass kidnapping, ethnic and sectarian violence, Harira’s mindless butchery along with her brood was horrific. She was reportedly returning from a visit to relatives when she was intercepted. Her distraught husband, Ahmed, a security guard, expressed his grief thus, “I have lost everything in this world, my wife and four children, all gone just like that. This is the worst thing any person would experience in life.” Fiendishly ruthless, the gunmen had after killing the heavily pregnant woman, turned on her four wailing children, all girls.  “Fatima, the eldest, was nine years old, Aisha, seven. Then Hadiza, five years, and Zaituna, two years old,” said Ahmed. This is beyond repugnant. Despite their savagery, the Boko Haram/ISWAP terrorists, who have carved a bloody swath through the North-East, refrain from randomly butchering children, preferring to kidnap them. Similarly, the ferocious bandits/terrorists rampaging through the North-West and North-Central states kidnap rather than kill children. Though also terrible, at least the children have a chance of survival. In the infamous Abuja-Kaduna train kidnap, they allowed a pregnant captive to deliver and released another pregnant woman. Among these bloodthirsty groups, children are more often collateral damage, not targets. Harira’s killers, therefore, share the deliberate killing of children only with the Fulani herdsmen/militants, Nigeria’s third established terrorist group. Adding a new layer to the insecurity plaguing the country, the South-East gunmen have been violently enforcing an illegal sit-at-home order on Mondays and on days the detained leader of IPOB, Nnamdi Kanu, appears in court in Abuja, in continuation of his trial for treason and illegal possession of arms charges. They ambush and kill civilians and security personnel, torch public and private buildings. Recently, they abducted an Anambra State legislator, Okechukwu Okoye, and decapitated him. Before then, they had kidnapped a military couple in Imo State on their way to formalise their wedding, raped the female and thereafter beheaded both. The Centre for Democracy and Development reported that of the 1,863 persons killed in the region in the 10 years to 2021, 647 were killed in 2021 when the ESN and “gunmen” activities rose, compared to 110 in 2020 and 114 in 2019. As usual, violence in any part of the country inevitably taps into the deep fault lines tearing the Nigerian union apart. Birthed in the separatist agenda of IPOB for an independent Biafran nation and in response to the Fulani rapine, the gunmen’s terrorist enterprise is interpreted by some northern ethnic nationalities as targeted against them. In reality, the assailants’ victims have been mostly Igbo. Garba Haruna, the Sarkin-Hausa Anambra, admitted this, saying, “It was not a targeted attack on any ethnic group as other people too were killed in the community that day.” But these count for little in the wake of Harira’s and her children’s murder. Passions; ethnic, sectarian and regional, have been stoked for years, exacerbated by the excessive sectionalism and incompetence of the Buhari regime. The victims were Fulani from Ganye LGA, Adamawa State. IPOB/ESN has long sustained a virulent campaign against ‘Northern domination;’ and the slayings followed shortly after Islamic fanatics murdered a female Christian student, Deborah Yakubu, in Sokoto on the accusation of “blasphemy” and thereafter rioted through the town with Igbo traders, shops and churches as their prime targets. The fact that IPOB and Kanu have disowned the gunmen has not convinced their opponents. Like the terrorists operating in the North, this incident and others, if unchecked, could provoke a major ethnoreligious conflagration. Deliberately targeting anyone for violence on account of his identity is reprehensible. Moreover, every Nigerian has an inalienable right to reside, work and move freely anywhere in the country without fear of molestation. Never since the Nigerian Civil War era (1967-70) have Nigerians become so insecure in parts of the country simply because of their ethnic or religious identity. To stop the swift slide towards state failure and implosion, Buhari, the security forces and the state governors have to move decisively, collaborate and end the insecurity. First, the heartless killers must be identified, swiftly apprehended, prosecuted and given the maximum penalty for their crimes. Beyond Buhari’s outrage and Soludo’s curfew imposed on eight LGAs, there is an urgent need for a new approach and new strategies to stop the carnage, and the odious sit-at-home order. Non-state actors should never be allowed to impose their evil will on any region and disrupt economic and social activities. Compliance with civil action should be a voluntary expression of the individual’s right to protest. Compelling obedience by violence, including murder and arson, is terrorism; it should be treated as such. Criminals should not hijack a legitimate cause. Peaceful agitation for restructuring and separation are fundamental rights; violence, murder, arson and coercion are criminal acts that should be decisively crushed. Separatist agitators in Scotland, United Kingdom or Quebec in Canada have not taken to terrorism. The United Nations General Assembly Resolution 49/60 explicitly defines criminal acts intended to provoke terror for political, religious, ethnic purposes as terrorism. The three elements of an insurgency identified by NAT0—activities by an organised group, a political/territorial change agenda, and the use of violence—are all present in the gunmen’s activities. The government should therefore adopt the standard counter-terrorism and counter-insurgency playbooks implemented by countries confronting terrorism and insurgency. The Federal Government’s heavy militarisation of the region has not brought peace. The security forces must change their heavy-handed approach that has further alienated the communities and denied security operations of the indispensable popular buy-in needed to defeat a local insurgency. Troops should stop profiling all South-Easterners and end human rights abuses, including arbitrary detentions, extrajudicial executions, torture and destruction of homes. Amnesty International reported that 115 persons were killed in the region by Nigerian security forces in the first eight months of 2021. An NGO, International Society for Civil Liberties and Rule of Law, claimed that security forces between October 2020 and December 2021 destroyed almost 1,000 homes and detained 4,800 civilians without trial. The economic costs are also high. Soludo estimates losses to Anambra at N19.6 billion on every sit-at-home day. Experts recommend adopting a strategy combining both ‘hard power’ and winning ‘hearts and minds.’ Repression, indiscriminate arrests and detentions, torture and victimisation of entire communities must give way to constructive engagement with community leaders and the youths. The United States counter-insurgency strategy adopted by most European countries incorporates military, paramilitary, political, economic, psychological and civic actions to defeat an armed non-state actor. The “stick” or military aspect uses violence, decapitation of insurgent groups, elimination of individual insurgents and disruption of their support networks. The “carrot” operations seek civilian support through political, economic and development benefits. Working closely with the governors, this should be the new emphasis. Intelligence has to take the leading role, not brawn, when dealing with insurgents indigenous to, and embedded in the local communities. Human intelligence-gathering featuring undercover agents, informants, infiltration of the insurgent cells, and “sting” operations to unmask and track criminals and their leaders and plots are crucial. There must be effective deployment of technology and creative use of signals intelligence, electronic listening devices and drones. The State Security Service has to be more efficient and professional, shifting its priority from repressing regime critics to making the country safe. Save for Soludo, who was inaugurated in March, the governors and other leaders in the region have been singularly ineffectual. As chief security officers, must take the lead in local efforts, and engage in widespread consultations to restore peace and optimal productive activities. The governors should activate and fund local vigilance and neighbourhood watch units, work closely with youth associations and community groups. Urgently, they should activate, reform and generously fund the region’s security outfit, Ebube Agu. Again, we restate our recommendation that federal and state lawmakers, with the support of the 36 state governors invoke the doctrine of necessity to facilitate a constitution amendment authorising state policing as appropriate to a federation and its security challenges. This time, Buhari and the security agencies must ensure that the killers of Harira and her four children are brought to justice. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com