Markets, business centres, schools, filling stations, and banks were again shut on Monday in various parts of Imo State in continuation of the weekly sit-at-home. While the roads, motor parks, and relaxation centres were empty, some commercial motorcyclists were seen taking passengers to their various destinations at exorbitant fares in some areas. One of our correspondents who monitored the situation reported that some drivers of the Imo City Transport buses who dared the order of the Indigenous People of Biafra operated through bush paths to avoid the wrath of members of the proscribed organisation. The situation was the same as markets in the Aboh Mbaise, Mbaitoli, Ikeduru, Owerri West, Ngor Okpala, and Njaba council areas were shut. Shops and stores were placed under lock and key while the residents stayed indoors. Security men, including armed mobile policemen in their vehicles, patrolled the major roads. Some of the commercial vehicle drivers who parked their vehicles lamented the situation, which they said had continued to impose hardship on their families even as they appealed to the Federal Government to expedite action on the release of the leader of IPOB, Nnamdi Kanu. The situation was the same in Anambra State on Monday as the sit-at-home paralysed activities in some parts of the state, as banks, schools, markets, motor parks, filling stations, and shops remained shut. Major roads across major cities such as Onitsha, Nnewi, Oba, Obosi, Ekwulobia, and some parts of Awka were empty as vehicles deserted the roads. This is just as the Keke and Motorcycle Riders Association of Nigeria, Anambra State Chapter, has commended the state governor, Prof. Chukwuma Soludo, for declaring the 6pm  to 6am curfew in some parts of the state. The association said the order had helped caution its members who operate at night. The association’s chairman, Chief Arunsi Igbaniuka, said the curfew would also help to checkmate the activities of criminals in the affected council areas. He said, “This is to express our unalloyed support/solidarity to the present government led by Prof. Soludo and all his seasoned commissioners, amongst whom is Patricia Igwebuike, the Commissioner for Transport. “We have no doubt that the governor appreciates the basic, foundational, and grassroots position the local and intercity transportation occupy in the economic development of this state, which we represent. Hence, this convention reiterates our yearnings for recognition and approval by the present administration. “We thank the governor for freeing us from touts, brutalities, harassments, intimidations, humiliation, injury, and killings of members over illegal levies collection.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com