Member States of the World Health Organisation have re-elected Dr. Tedros Ghebreyesus to serve a second five-year term as the organisation’s Director-General. According to a news release posted on its official website on Tuesday, the organisation’s governing body affirmed Ghebryesus’ re-appointment as the head of the organisation, during its ongoing 75th World Health Assembly held in Geneva, Switzerland. In his remark after to his re-election, Ghebreyesus said, “I am humbled by the opportunity provided by the member states to serve a second term as WHO Director-General. “This honour, though comes with great responsibility, and I am committed to working with all countries, my colleagues around the world, and our valued partners, to ensure WHO delivers on its mission to promote health, keep the world safe, and serve the vulnerable.” The agency said its Executive Board, during a meeting held in January 2022, had nominated Ghebreyesus to vie for a second term, adding that his eventual re-assumption of office was a result of an election process that began in April 2021 when Member States were invited to tender proposals for candidates for the post of DG. It also said his new mandate would officially commence on August 16, 2022, and end in 2027, as ‘’a Director-General can be re-appointed once, in accordance with World Health Assembly rules and procedures’’. Adorned as an admirable Crichton with his vast transformational achievements since his first assumption of office in 2017, the WHO boss emerged as the sole candidate in the election, to continue promoting the organisation’s vanguardist goal of branching out its global health and humanitarian crusades. ‘’Before first being appointed WHO Director-General, Dr Tedros served as Minister of Foreign Affairs, Ethiopia from 2012–2016 and as Minister of Health, Ethiopia from 2005–2012. He had also served as chair of the Board of the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis, and Malaria; as chair of the Roll Back Malaria Partnership Board; and as co-chair of the Board of the Partnership for Maternal, Newborn and Child Health,’’ the agency noted.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com