No fewer than 750 computer-based test centres have been prepared for the Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board’s 2022 Unified Tertiary Matriculation Examination and Direct Entry Examinations billed to commence on Friday (today). The PUNCH had earlier reported that no fewer than 1.6 million candidates registered for the 2022 UTME/DE examinations. According to the Registrar, JAMB, Prof Ishaq Oloyede, during a virtual meeting with members of examination committees, a total of 750 centres had been made available. Oloyede, who was quoted in the weekly magazine of the board made available to our correspondent in Abuja on Thursday, also acknowledged the committee’s support towards the board. “For the 2022 UTME, 750 computer-based test centres would be used for the exercise as he (Oloyede) urged them to continue to give their best to the nation,” the bulletin read. The board, in the bulletin, also noted that it would be conducting four examination sessions instead of its traditional three sessions in some centres across the country. “The Registrar of the Board announced this decision, Prof. Is-haq Oloyede, at the end of a consultative meeting with critical stakeholders held to finalise all arrangements for the upcoming 2022 UTME. “The affected centres are situated in the following examination towns: Abule Egba/Agege/Ikeja( Lagos); Mainland (Lagos) Funtua/ Malumfashi (Katsina) examination towns,” it added. Meanwhile, the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps, Osun State Command, has said 100 personnel would be deployed for the examinations in the state. This was contained in a statement by the command’s Public Relations Officer, Olabisi Atanda, obtained in Osogbo on Thursday. The command also reiterated its commitment to the prevention of any act that could jeopardise the successful conduct of the examinations across the state. “100 personnel will be deployed to all designated JAMB centres where the matriculation examination will be conducted across Osun State,” the statement read.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com