An Edo State High Court has refused to grant an interim injunction seeking to restrain the Peoples Democratic Party and its National Chairman, Iyorchia Ayu, from allowing the ad hoc delegates that emerged from the party’s Ward Congresses to participate in the party’s primary election. The action was instituted by one Mr. Eghe Adun, an old PDP member believed to be loyal to the South-South Vice Chairman of the PDP, Dan Orbih. Listed as defendants in the case with suit number HAB/46/2022 were the Peoples Democratic Party, Senator Iyorchia Ayu, Dr Tony Aziegbemi and Governor Godwin Obaseki. The court, sitting in Abudu, refused to countenance the ex parte application, but deferred hearing in the matter to the May 12, 2022. The party primaries are to be held on Saturday May 7, 2022. In a similar vein, Omoregie Ogbeide-Ihama, member representing Oredo in the House of Representatives, sponsored a similar suit at the Federal High Court Abuja, with suit number FHC/ABJ/CS/ 598/2022. The Plaintiffs in the said suit, seeking an ex parte injunction were Monday Osagie, Reuben Ekhosuehi, Adeyanba Osaro, Magdalene Omosigho, and Imariagbe Oghogho, who claimed to bring the suit on behalf of the 576 ad hoc delegates elected on 30 April, 2020. They were seeking to restrain the PDP, Iyorchia Ayu, Senator Sam Anyanwu, Umar Bature and INEC from acting on any list that did not include their names for the purpose of the party primaries of the May 7, 2022. Due to administrative constraints, the matter, which was filed on May 4, 2022, had yet to be assigned to a court by the Chief Judge of the Federal High Court. A faction of the PDP in Edo State headed by Chief Dan Orbih had expressed their dissatisfaction with the outcome of the Congress to elect three ad hoc delegates for the State and National Assembly primaries. To avert the legal action in court, which Orbih and his supporters threatened, a three-man Electoral Appeal Panel was set-up by the national leadership of the party. On Tuesday, May 3, 2022, the chairman and two other members of the Appeal Panel arrived in Benin City to address grievances arising from the congress held across the 192 wards in Edo State to elect 576 ad hoc delegates ahead of the party’s primaries. Addressing party members at the PDP Secretariat in Benin City, the chairman of the Edo PDP Ward Congresses Electoral Appeal Panel, Sen. Chukwuka Utazi, said the committee had commenced work, promising to ensure justice for all aggrieved parties. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com