Kwara State Governor, Abdulrahman AbdulRazaq, has appointed Ibrahim Sulyman as the new Attorney-General and Commissioner of Justice of the state. The governor in a minor cabinet reshuffle announced through a statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Rafiu Ajakaye, on Wednesday moved Ibrahim who was until now the Commissioner for Tertiary Education to the Ministry of Justice. Ibrahim who is a 2008 law graduate of the Ahmadu Bello University, Zaria, replaces Salman Jawondo (SAN), who resigned to contest election into the House of Representatives seat in Ilorin West/Asa Federal Constituency. The statement said that the Ministry of Tertiary Education earlier being headed by Ibrahim would be overseen by the Permanent Secretary, pending the appointment of a new political head. The governor had three weeks ago effected a minor cabinet reshuffle involving two ministries where the political appointees had resigned to contest for elective offices. Ajakaye said, “The Governor directed the Commissioner for Environment Abosede Buraimoh to proceed to the Ministry of Solid Minerals; while the Commissioner for Planning and Economic Development Remilekun Banigbe reverts to the Ministry of Environment. “The reshuffle is with immediate effect,” the statement said. However, Ajakaye while responding to enquiries by The PUNCH, on Wednesday, said that Permanent Secretaries in the ministries where Commissioners have resigned were to take charge. “In the interim, Permanent Secretaries are to take charge of the Ministries where there are no Commissioners,” he said. Five Commissioners, two Special Advisers and a special Assistant, as well as the general manager of the state social investment, have resigned from the state cabinet to contest the primary election on the platform of the All Progressives Congress. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com