The Bauchi State Police Command confirmed the killing of the three persons in the Tafawa Balewa LGA on Monday May 9, 2022 at about 8:30pm but had yet to confirm the incident in the Ningi LGA, which happened at around 11:30pm on Wednesday, as of the time of filing this report. The PUNCH had reported that gunmen, in the early hours of Wednesday, attacked Yadagungume and Limi villages in the Ningi local government area of Bauchi State and killed three persons, while one other person was injured. The Zaar Youth Development Association, which disclosed the incident in the Tafawa Balewa LGA, in a statement made available to journalists in the state, condemned the incident, describing it as “barbaric, sad and unfortunate.” The association made the condemnation in a media statement signed and issued to journalists by its National Leader, Ga’Allah Daniel, saying that “the ugly incident claimed 3 lives, leaving five persons with various degrees of injury.” While sympathising with the families affected, Num, lwong Kal and the entire Zaar land over the incident, the youth leader called on the security agencies to go after the perpetrators. He said that the security agencies, whose primary assignment was to protect lives and property, needed to wake up and redouble their effort towards fulfilling their task. Daniel called on Zaar communities to wake up from “slumber” and be proactive in community vigilance and to report any suspicious movements to security agencies. “We also want to call on all the communities bordering Zaar land to synergise with one another for better information through alerting each other to avert been caught unawares to evil minded persons. “We experienced series of attacks on our people during farming season last year, and now that this year’s farming season is setting in, we have started witnessing it again with this present attack”, he lamented. Meanwhile, our correspondent learnt that in the Agwarmaje incident, the gunmen were said to have shot and killed the victim at about 11:30pm on Wednesday on his way back to the village on a motorcycle from the state capital, Bauchi. The deceased was said to have been riding the motorcycle with another person when the incident happened. The other person was said to have escaped with bullet wounds. The gunmen were said to have snatched the motorcycle and sped off to another settlement, Yan Musussuka where they snatched another motorcycle and went away with them. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com