The Vice President, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo, on Tuesday in Abuja said it is pertinent on leadership to build a nation that works for all Nigerians regardless of their region. This is as he said such society must be peaceful, secure, founded on law, order and the rule of law; and one that enables commerce and values productivity to ensure large and small businesses can grow. According to a statement signed by his Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity, Osinbajo spoke when he was formally honoured with the award for Leadership Person of the Year 2021 at the Leadership Newspapers’ Annual Conference and Awards ceremony which held on Tuesday at the International Conference Centre, in Abuja. The statement is titled ‘Why we must create a country that works for us all, by Osinbajo’. Speaking at the event, after receiving the award, the Vice President said, “We must create a country that works for us all–a peaceful and secure society founded on law and order and the rule of law; a society that enables commerce and values productivity, so that large and small businesses can grow and provide jobs and opportunities for millions of young people, a society where no one is left behind. “By means of an effective social welfare scheme, a safety net for the very poor and the vulnerable; a united and tolerant nation where all, irrespective of ethnicity, religion or political persuasion, are respected, treated fairly and justly, and have equal access to all opportunities. “We must build a Nigeria where a boy or girl does not say that, ‘I am from the South-West, or I am from the North-West, or South-South or North-East, or North-Central or South-East, but that I am a Nigerian, a citizen of one of the greatest and most prosperous nations on earth. “This is the kind of Nigeria that those of us in this political tendency, to which Sam Nda-Isaiah belonged, all attest to and believe.” He dedicated the award to “millions of Nigerians who believe in this new Nigeria, and who retain faith in our possibilities as a people and are doing their best every day in their various corners to build this nation through honest endeavour.” According to him, “it is because of such Nigerians, that despite the great challenges we are passing through on our march of progress, I am certain that we will build this great Nigerian nation that we all yearn for.” Thanking the Management of the Leadership Group led by its Chairman, Mrs Zainab Nda-Isaiah for the recognition, the VP also commended the Group “for forging ahead” following the demise of its Founding Chairman and Publisher, Sam Nda-Isaiah, who died in December 2020. The Vice President also recognized his co-awardee, Dr Okonjo-Iweala, who he noted is a globally affirmed finance and development expert, and a true Nigerian patriot. “Every glass ceiling she has broken, and they are many, has inspired girls and women all over the world to reach for the highest heights in all fields of human endeavour,” he stated. In attendance were State Governors: Dr Kayode Fayemi (Ekiti); Muhammad Yahaya (Gombe); Bala Mohammed (Bauchi); Aminu Tambuwal (Sokoto); members of the National Assembly and the Senior Special Assistant to the President on Public Affairs and Strategy, Mr. Muhammad Sani Zorro, who represented the First Lady, Aisha Buhari. Other dignitaries included the Etsu of Nupe and Royal Father of the Day, Yahaya Abubakar, who presented the award to the VP; Patrick Alumuku, who represented the Bishop of the Catholic Diocese of Sokoto, Matthew Hassan-Kukah; and also delivered the keynote address themed, “Resetting Nigeria: Culture, Politics, Geography and the role of Big Ideas.” Osinbajo, thereafter, proceeded to Kano State to continue his nationwide consultations with stakeholders and delegates of the All Progressives Congress. On arrival, he stopped by the scene of Tuesday morning’s explosion in Sabon Gari area of the State, to commiserate with victims, before proceeding with the interactions with the APC stakeholders. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com