The Regional Director for East and Southern Africa, TerraPay, Mr Willie Kanyeki, discusses the digital payment ecosystem in Africa with Temitayo Jaiyeola, and explains that Nigeria’s population is favourable to the industry’s growth According to a recent whitepaper by your organization, the West African region was responsible for over 21 million new mobile money accounts in 2020. What would you say was responsible for this growth? What is driving adoption in this region? Accelerated by the effects of the coronavirus pandemic, countries across the world were forced to modernise their payment systems with touchless and contactless payment options to keep commerce flowing and sustain economic growth. Similarly, the African economy showed resilience. Consumers turned to digital payments during the pandemic as the demand for household supplies and personal care soared. Our research with IBS revealed that Africa, during the pandemic, witnessed the fastest growth rate in mobile penetration, with about 50-55 per cent of the population owning a smartphone. The digitisation of financial services during the pandemic was one of the key growth drivers for Western Africa. Nigeria alone has registered growth in digital payments, followed by Ghana. They are in the mobile money market with approximately 295 million mobile money transactions per month. Youth demographics are one of the key drivers of the demand for cashless and frictionless payments. The rise in the number of millennials and uncovering the underbanked population have also contributed to this growth. In addition to this, the sophisticated ecosystem of homegrown payment service providers and aggregators is also driving the adoption of digital payments in the region, mainly because of the swift and affordable solutions that these payment and financial institutions provide. The Central Bank of Nigeria has set a financial inclusion target of 95 per cent by 2024. In what ways can digital wallets help achieve the target? The very essence of financial inclusion is to provide accessible and affordable financial services to vulnerable masses. Ease of access to mobile money (a digital payments platform allowing money transfer between mobile devices) is crucial to the adoption and deepening of financial inclusion because it is the easiest way to tap into vulnerable groups in Africa. The continent has registered the fastest growth rate in mobile penetration since the pandemic. Nearly 55-60 per cent of the adult population has a mobile money account in sub-Saharan Africa and it is expected to reach 634 million by 2025. Talking specifically about Nigeria, smartphone penetration has increased from 12 per cent to 40 per cent in the last five years It is also observed that women are still considered about 30 per cent to 33 per cent less likely than men to have active accounts, which is mainly because of a lack of financial literacy. Also, other payment modes are more likely to be expensive and less secure. Digital wallets are less complex, affordable, and swift, therefore closing the gender gap by addressing the barriers preventing women from accessing and using financial services. Additionally, various telecoms and payment enabler companies in Africa are heavily investing in the region and taking varied initiatives to encourage digital payments there. Moreover, it is also attracting the interest of international players. Rapidly, it is transforming into a market that offers new growth opportunities. Hence, digital wallets and mobile payments will be one of the forerunners in achieving the financial inclusion target of 95 per cent by 2024. Based on your experience in the East and South African markets, what factors can hinder the wide adoption of digital payments in West Africa, particularly Nigeria, and what actions can be taken to overcome these challenges? The eastern region of Africa has developed an innovative way to ensure smooth money transfers. The region favours a telecom-led regulatory model, where each country has one primary service provider—ensuring that the provider has a significant market share and can evolve a bouquet of services. This has resulted in growth that is well above the continental average, backed by the resilient economies of Kenya, Ethiopia, and Tanzania. For instance, in 2021, Kenya witnessed around 120 per cent of mobile penetration. Transactions via mobile and wallets represented approximately 87 per cent of GDP. The South African market is one of the most dominant economies in the region. The reliance on cash decreased and cards are fast becoming a preferred mode of payment followed by digital/mobile wallets. Nigeria is considered one of Africa’s sleeping, mobile money giants. Nigeria is home to the continent’s largest adult (around 114 million) and unbanked populations (estimated at 35-40 per cent). The country shows potential to roll out and adopt mobile money services on a large scale. In 2020, there was notable traction in Nigeria’s payment space, primarily through the emergence of app-based wallets. Rising investment in this area has been complemented by significant advances in smartphone penetration, which has increased from 12 per cent to 40 per cent in the last five years. The main challenge that hinders the widespread adoption of digital payments is the uneven distribution of financial literacy across the African continent. The lack of knowledge of formal channels may become a barrier to the adoption of digital payments if not addressed. Some of the other challenges limiting the large-scale adoption of digitised remittances include: high remittance prices contributed by operational costs, compliance and KYC costs, regulatory environment, as well as lack of consistent and reliable data on remittances helpful for remittance service providers. These challenges can be tackled by imparting financial literacy to consumers and also simplifying the payment processes for them. Various service providers and financial institutions are launching strong initiatives to educate the masses across Africa. They are not only providing easy internet access to the people but are also making them aware of mobile payments. Additionally, a growing number of players, both domestic and international, are entering the market with various solutions that are less complex, swifter, and secure. This is encouraging customers to adopt/switch to digital payment methods. The COVID-19 pandemic boosted digital wallets/ mobile money transactions. Is the growth being sustained post-Covid? The prospect of Africa going cashless has led to a rush to revolutionise the continent’s digital payment landscape. A significant number of businesses and customers adopted cashless payment methods for the simplicity, speed, and affordability it offers. It has fundamentally changed how the residents of Africa save, transfer, and borrow money. The pandemic made a large chunk of the African populace aware of the power of digital payments. Digital payment is evolving fast, and Africa’s digital payment landscape is expected to become more dynamic with the evolution of different payment methods and digital currencies. There is a huge opportunity for all service providers, regulators, as well as customers in Africa. The swift growth of mobile money schemes in sub-Saharan Africa is boosting financial inclusion within the region. Moreover, it is also attracting the interest of international players. It is transforming into a market that offers new growth opportunities. Additionally, industry standardisation across all parts of the payment process will help facilitate the development of interoperable platforms like TerraPay. This will drive competition and lower costs. The System for Real-Time Electronic Settlements in the SADC region is expanding its settlement infrastructure to include non-bank providers. In some cases, the operators are also reconfiguring the continent’s financial infrastructure, bridging the ‘access’ gap, and exploring new low-cost solutions to old problems–pre-empting mainstream offerings in some cases. One of the main opportunities for solution providers is to build more digital products other than digital wallets, for instance, digital lending. This will enable them to expand their reach in the continent and serve a more extensive customer base. The next phase of the digital revolution in remittances would require solution providers to ramp up innovation and coordination to reach those last remittance users that are still reliant on informal channels. What future do you foresee for Nigeria’s digital wallets/ mobile money space? Nigeria is the fastest-growing market, poised to leapfrog the cash-to-card revolution. Consumers are beginning to migrate to mobile-enabled payment methods. One of the key reasons for this diversion from cash to cashless payments can be attributed to the young population residing in the region who have an affinity for shopping online and are more tech-savvy than the older generations. Additionally, the introduction of Digital IDs has already solved identification and a host of other problems for customers residing in Nigeria, and the region has witnessed impressive cost savings using biometric identification in pensions and social grant programmes. Nigeria is considered one of Africa’s sleeping, mobile money giants. Nigeria is home to the continent’s largest adult (about 114 million) and unbanked populations (between 35-40 per cent). The country shows potential to roll out and adopt mobile money services on a large scale. In 2020, there was notable traction in Nigeria’s payment space, primarily through the emergence of app-based wallets. Rising investment in this area has been complemented by significant advances in smartphone penetration, which has increased from 12 per cent to 40 per cent in the last five years. Cryptocurrency is anticipated to become the future of cross-border remittances. In Africa, the market for crypto-based remittances is already expanding, given the benefit of transferring money across borders in a cost-effective manner. In fact, Nigeria is already blazing the trail and is ranked third globally with the highest bitcoin trading volumes in 2020. Pan-African cryptocurrency exchange players such as Yellow Card capitalise on Nigerians’ cryptocurrency demand from the business front. The future is bright for the crypto-remittance market in Africa. The Central Bank of Nigeria recently gave MTN, a telco, a payment service bank licence. How will this improve the mobile money market in Nigeria? The CBN licensing of MTN as a payment service bank will significantly open up the mobile money ecosystem in Nigeria. MTN is a market leader in the mobile money space in several countries across Africa. The company has brought financial services to much of Africa’s unbanked population through innovation and aggressive marketing. Nigeria has a large informal sector. What is an entry-use point for digital payments in this sector, and how can it drive financial inclusion? Businesses in the informal sector are interested in secure, convenient and inexpensive payment methods. Mobile money has gained the trust of businesses across Africa. This is evident in the many markets where businesses have embraced mobile money as a payment method. Services such as MTN MoMo in Ghana and Uganda, MPesa in East and Southern Africa, and Airtel Money have led the way. Mobile money in Nigeria will be no different. Nigeria is a vast market, and the introduction of mobile money will serve to increase the volume of trade. Mobile money, as a formal method of banking and payment, feels informal because the wallet holder’s funds seem to be in their own pockets. This will make the transition from cash payments to mobile money transfers relatively easier. Many Nigerian banks have limited foreign currency transaction amounts via debit cards. Has this in any way impacted cross-border transfers? The limits banks place on foreign currency transactions on a debit card can be a major challenge for cross-border transactions. The businesses that take part in cross-border trade are growing rapidly and need unimpeded access to their funds. This challenge, however, doesn’t have to stop cross-border transfers. Banks and licensed payment institutions have products designed to facilitate seamless cross-border payments. What impact will Nigeria’s eNaira have on the digital payments ecosystem? How will central bank digital currencies change the ecosystem? We expect the eNaira to provide a platform for Nigeria’s digital payments ecosystem to grow significantly in the coming months and years. We are excited by the introduction of the eNaira. The new digital currency opens up many possibilities for businesses in the financial technology ecosystem. We are eager to introduce innovative products that will make the lives of the people of Nigeria easier and more productive. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com