Ahead of the 2023 general election, former lawmaker, Shehu Sani, on Wednesday, advised the Independent National Electoral Commission to keep its sensitive materials for the exercise with pastors and an Islamic human rights group, Muslim Rights Concern. The PUNCH reports that the Nigerian Bar Association and civil rights groups on Monday warned that the Central Bank of Nigeria Governor, Godwin Emefiele’s involvement in partisan politics was threatening the 2023 elections. They also said Emefiele’s membership of the ruling All Progressives Congress had eroded the credibility, of the apex bank, where sensitive materials are kept, during elections. Prominent Nigerians who spoke separately to The PUNCH condemned Emefiele’s APC membership and his failure to resign while allegedly plotting to contest the 2023 presidency. But INEC in a statement by Rotimi Oyekanmi, the Chief Press Secretary to its Chairman, said it had taken notice of the latest revelation on Emefiele. It added that it might move ballot papers from the CBN vaults. “The strategic partnership between the Central Bank of Nigeria and the Independent National Electoral Commission which enables the commission to store its sensitive election materials with the CBN, has been in place for many years and beneficial in several ways. “Indeed, there have been various reports that the CBN governor is nursing an intention to run for the office of President. But, he has yet to formally declare his intention to run for the office of president as of today. “However, if and when he eventually does, the commission will look at the implications and take a decision on what becomes of the long-standing strategic partnership with the CBN,” the statement read. However, reacting to the development on Wednesday, Sani who represented Kaduna Central in the 8th Senate, said the electoral umpire should entrust the ballot papers to the care of “God-fearing” individuals. In a tweet on his Twitter page, Sani wrote, “INEC materials should be given to the God fearing MURIC and Pastors for safe keeping.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com