Nigeria’s Vice President and presidential aspirant in the 2023 general election on the platform of the All Progressives Congress, Professor Yemi Osinbajo, SAN, has said consultations with the people is critical in governance and important for national development, especially in a country as diverse and complex as Nigeria. This was contained in a press release signed by the VP’s Senior Special Assistant on Media & Publicity, Laolu Akande, on Monday. Osinbajo, according to the release, said this at his official residence at the Presidential Villa Sunday evening during a dinner with Speakers and Deputy Speakers of some State Houses of Assembly. The statement quoted the VP as saying, “government by partnership is so important. “That is the kind of relationship that I think makes governance easier. The only way to make a complex country like this work is by consultations. There is no other way.” The Senior Advocate of Nigeria also stated that he would apply this partnership model in governance if he was nominated by the All Progressives Congress (APC) as its presidential flagbearer, and he is elected as President of Nigeria, according to the statement. “People want to be engaged, they want to be spoken to, they want to hear what government is doing, they want you to hear what their opinions are. “That engagement taught me something very crucial, the most important thing of all in this country, is for us to be able to sit down and talk on any issue. People want to be able to express their views, and they want to be heard/helped, and we must create the time to hear them to understand their views. “Whatever policy that is, engagement is always the best approach, I think that has succeeded in so many instances. I am confident that the partnership model is one that will always work,” Osinbajo said. The statement also quoted the former Professor of Law as restating the value of his experience as the VP in the last seven years to lead Nigeria as President in 2023. “In terms of training on the job, I think I am quite well trained. So, I believe very strongly that, although there are other contestants who are also very capable and competent, I believe that just in terms of readiness, I think that if there is anyone who is prepared for that, I am certainly that person. “So, if by the grace of God, I am nominated by the party and the electorate, I think that God helping us, we will be able to do much in office. And one of the very important things for me is what I would describe as a partnership.” The statement quoted Osinbajo as attributing the success of the administration of the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), to cordial relationships and partnerships with the 36 states governors and all the regions of the country. On the remarks of the guests at the dinner, the statement wrote, “the Speakers and Deputy Speakers commended the Vice President for his efforts in the Buhari administration and in the general development of the country, while many of them endorsed his aspiration to become president in 2023.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com