Following the continued attacks on many communities and gruesome killings of innocent people, the Youth Wing of the Southern Kaduna Peoples Union has called on the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), to establish a Southern Kaduna Development Commission that would be saddled with the responsibility of reconstructing, rehabilitating and resettling over two million displaced persons in almost 200 communities. The group stated this in a statement signed by its national leader, Comrade John Isaac, and issued to journalists in Kaduna on Wednesday. It said the killings and destruction of lives and properties and the displacement of communities taking place in Southern Kaduna by terrorist herdsmen was of similar proportion to the Boko Haram-ravaged North-Eastern part of Nigeria. The PUNCH reported that Southern Kaduna had become a hotbed of deadly attacks in recent months. The union noted that the Southern Kaduna Development Commission was paramount and should be supported by every well-meaning and peace-loving Nigerian. While commenting on the 2023 general election, the group vowed to support only aspirants that have shown empathy and support during the travails of their innocent people, noting that the region would be a no-go area for aspirants who have no human feelings, regards for human lives and have shown little or no concerns and empathy to the region. SOKAPU explained that the region in the last seven years had witnessed unprecedented number of attacks, with thousands killed and slaughtered in cold blood, properties worth billions of naira destroyed and millions displaced. “While we appreciate the generosity of some of the aspirants towards ameliorating the living conditions of displaced persons in the state, we will like to call on all aspirants across all political parties to emulate the kind gestures of those who have extended support to the people of Southern Kaduna and Kaduna State at large. “We also want to categorically emphasise that more needs to be done in the areas of rehabilitation and reconstruction of sacked communities in Southern Kaduna as the are passing through untold hardship,” the statement partly read. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com