The immediate past Secretary to the Katsina State Government, Muhammed Inuwa, on Wednesday implored aspirants at the forthcoming Governorship primaries in the state under the umbrella of the All Progressives Congress to work for the victory of the party in the 2023 general elections. He maintained that the victory of the party at the election is more important than the primaries, adding that they should not be preoccupied with the outcome of the primaries. The former SSG gave the advice in Katsina during a chat with newsmen. Inuwa said although he too was an aspirant in the primaries, he believed that the APC victory at the election should be paramount in the minds of all genuine party members. He declared, “We would have our primaries. But what happens thereafter? We should all join hands and ensure the victory of our great party at the general elections.APC is popular, that is why so many of us are clamouring to be it’s Governorship flag bearer. “Once we finish with the primaries,we should all join hands with whoever emerges to ensure the party’s victory.” The former SSG, however, maintained that he had a great hope that he would emerge victorious at the primaries. He said he had been going round the state on a campaign, adding that the responses he had been getting from the electorate showed that he might emerge victorious at the primaries. Inuwa added that the delegates who would vote at the primaries should allow the interest of the party and the progress of the state determine whoever will be picked as the party’s flagbearer in the 2023 Governorship race. He declared,” I have seen it all, Apart from being one of founding members of the APC in the state,I was also its pioneer Chairman. We have taken the party to all the 34 Local Government Areas of the state and we have ensured victory in all our elections and bye elections in the state. “I believe I have the prerequisite and required experience to govern the state.But as I told the victory of the party in the general elections is paramount to me.” Meanwhile,no fewer than seven aspirants are going to slug it out at the APC governorship primary in the state. They include the former SSG,the Deputy Governor, Manir Yakubu; the State Budget and Economic Planning Commissioner, Faruk Jobe; the current Managing Director of the Federal Mortgage Bank of Nigeria, Ahmed Dangiwa; the Director-General of the Small and Medium Enterprises Development Agency, Dikko Umar Radda; a Kaduna based businessman,Senator Abubakar Yar’adua; and the immediate past Managing Director of the Nigerian Security and Printing Company, Abbas Masanawa. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com