A presidential aspirant on the platform of All Progressives Congress, and the Governor of Ekiti State, Dr. Kayode Fayemi, has advised supporters of presidential hopefuls in the South-West region not to make enemies. Fayemi, who spoke in Osogbo while addressing delegates of the APC presidential primary at Osun Government House, said there was no war among aspirants, adding that all of them were qualified to vie for the post. The Ekiti governor, who also said he had not come with any sense of entitlement, pleaded with the delegates to vote for him at the primary. “Some people think there is a big battle going on within our folds, but it is not true. I told Asiwaju that I am coming here today. So people must not inherit an enemy that is not existing. What is important is the progress of our people. What is important is that the South-West must succeed. I want to assure you that there will be a collective resolve to the success of the South-West. “This aspiration is a family business in the South-West. No quarrel in the family, no matter what happens as long as South-West wins, we are all victorious. We are sons and daughters of Oodua, and our values remain constant. “We are leaders in the progressive movement, no one is not eminently qualified right from our leader, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, the Vice President, Professor Yemi Osinbajo or Senator Ibikunle Amosun, even Reverend Tunde Bakare. We are driven by the same beliefs, passion and commitment to improving the condition of our people, that is what is driving us. “I have not come with any sense of entitlement. My friend, Governor Oyetola will not be happy if I did not come to Osun. I am unapologetically committed to the success of Oyetola. For me, coming here today, the party in Osun must be informed about my aspiration so as for me to seek your solidarity and support. It does not matter, if you don’t make me number one, make me number two. Politics can not separate us. It is just the interest of our people that matters,” Fayemi said. In his remarks, Governor Adegboyega Oyetola lauded Fayemi for his support over the years, describing him as a brother for several years. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com