A renowned banker and a chieftain of the All Progressive Congress in Abia State, Chief Alex Otti, has announced his intentions to withdraw from the governorship primary election of the party in the state. In a statement by his special adviser on media and publicity Mr Ferdinand Ekeoma, he alleged that his withdraw from the governorship primaries stems from the fact that the outcome of the election was already predetermined. He said the decision was taken after due consultation with his supporters, stakeholders, and respected leaders of the APC within and outside the state. He revealed that a memo from the National Legal Adviser of the party to the state chairman dated May 18, 2022 had imposed a strange sharing formular on APC aspirants in Abia state. Otti, stated that more than 90% of the aspirants, leaders and stakeholders of the party had opposed the decision and subsequently appealed to the leadership of the APC to allow an open contest that would give room for the emergence of popular candidates who would also enjoy the support of party members and the electorate during the general election. He added that unfortunately, the party stuck to its decision to go by way of imposition of aspirants. The governorship hopeful informed his supporters and well wishers that having been roundly blessed and equipped by God, there was no cause for alarm over the development, maintaining that he was resolved to pursue his ambition on another platform and would give it his best to convincingly and legitimately win the mandate of Abia people come 2023. The statement partly read, “The constitution of the party and the electoral act have no room for coercion and imposition of candidates, hence the wise provision for either Direct Primaries, Indirect Primaries, or Consensus as acceptable modes of electing candidates. “While the rest of the aspirants had agreed to rally round and support any aspirant that wins the governorship primaries through a free and fair contest, a particular aspirant who obviously believes that he doesn’t stand a chance in a proper contest, rather chose to align with outside forces to be imposed on the party. But because we know that any product of imposition for the governorship ticket in the APC at a time like this in Abia would stand little chance in the general election, we strongly opposed it. “That it’s my firm belief that anyone who wants to govern Abia state and Abians, must be someone who has been democratically chosen by the people, and not one imposed by undemocratic or external forces pursuing self serving agenda that would undermine the welfare and wellbeing of Abians at the long run. “That because I know that no true revolution has ever taken place without hitches and hiccups, my dogged determination and avowed commitment to ensuring the dawn of a new era of progressive and people oriented leadership has rather been emboldened than dampened. “That because we are on a voyage of Abia redemption, and because the leadership calamity that befell Abia since the return of democracy in 1999 has not abated, we do not intend to quit midway, as that would represent a tragedy of immense proportion for our people who have been on a long search for good governance that would give them a well deserved reprieve. “That in the light of the above stated facts, I hereby withdraw from the predetermined governorship primaries of the All Progressives Congress slated to take place in the next few days. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com