Former Senate President, Bukola Saraki, on Friday bemoaned the current insecurity challenges in the country, promising that one of his priorities would be tackling insecurity, unemployment and ensuring massive food production if elected President in 2023. Saraki, a presidential aspirant of the Peoples Democratic Party, made the promise while addressing delegates, leaders, and executives of the Katsina State chapter of the PDP at the party’s state headquarters. He argued that the security situation in the country was way better while the PDP was in government at the federal level. Saraki assured PDP delegates in Katsina that he would protect their interest if elected as President. He said, “Katsina is my home. I have only come here to tell my brothers and sisters in Katsina of my ambition to become Nigeria’s President in 2023. If I become Nigeria’s President with your support, it is Katsina that has also become the President. “Many presidential aspirants will come here to meet you but tell them that you have known me for a long time and we have been together, and we understand one another. Tell them I am your President. “Security today in Nigeria is terrible. If I become the President, I will tackle insecurity; ensure that the safety of Nigerians is my priority; I will also create jobs and ensure that our farmers produce food massively for our people. Health will also be accorded priority. Our hospitals will be working again and health care delivery will be free. Nigeria will be okay again under my Presidency and we shall do it together.” Responding, a former governor of Katsina State and a PDP chieftain, Shehu Shema, described Saraki as vibrant, educated, and politically exposed. Shema said, “Dr Abubakar Bukola Saraki represents a perfect version of a true Nigerian. He is young; he is educated; he is vibrant and politically exposed. And if Saraki is given the opportunity to become Nigeria’s President, he will perform well. “As Muslims, we however believe that it is only Allah who can put someone in the position of authority, but we wish him success in his ambition.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com