First City Monument Bank, a member of FCMB Group Plc, has partnered with the Mastercard Foundation to provide subsidised loans to 100,000 Micro, Small, and Medium Enterprises to scale their operations and create work opportunities for young Nigerian women and men. A statement said the programme, which was part of the Mastercard Foundation’s Young Africa Works strategy in Nigeria, aimed to sustainably move Nigerian youths out of poverty. The statement said it was being executed through a $27.8m (about N15.5bn) MSME Revitalisation Fund, ensuring that qualified MSMEs could access loans for their business at a single-digit interest rate. It stated that, “70 per cent of the MSME Revitalisation Fund targets women-owned MSMEs in agribusiness, the creative industry, and digital sector. The remaining 30 per cent will be deployed to meet the funding needs of youth-owned enterprises and businesses run by vulnerable members within Nigeria.” Speaking on the partnership, the Managing Director, FCMB, Yemisi Edun, described it as a purpose-driven intervention that would further help break the barriers limiting MSMEs’ productivity and overall success in Nigeria. She said, “The past few years have been very challenging for individuals, households, and businesses in Nigeria. Now more than ever, all hands must be on deck to create opportunities that will sustainably enable people and businesses to find their footing and stand on more solid ground. “We are proud to partner with the Mastercard Foundation to rebuild businesses, drive recovery, and stimulate economic growth by providing the much-needed support to Nigerians to engage in productive activities. “As a caring and inclusive institution, we will deploy our products, services, and other excellent offerings to ensure that this partnership achieves the desired results.” According to the statement, the Mastercard Foundation’s Country Head for Nigeria, Chidinma Lawanson, said, “This partnership will enable us to scale our support to reach even more young people and communities that have been affected by the pandemic.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com