Taraba State Governor, Darius Ishaku, on Monday evening emerged as the Peoples Democratic Party’s senatorial candidate for Taraba South. This is just as his Deputy, Haruna Manu, clinched the ticket for Taraba Central. Ishaku, who was the party’s sole candidate for the senatorial district got 154 out of a total of 158 votes cast, while four were invalid. In Taraba Central, Manu polled 143 votes to defeat two other contestants. Deputy Senate Minority Leader, Senator Shuaibu Lau, polled 92 votes against David Ishaya who got 90 votes to win the ticket for Taraba North. Speaking on the outcome of the election, Ishaku commended the peaceful conduct of the primaries and noted that with what has happened, the party had emerged stronger from the exercise and would continue its dominance in the state. Also, Abia State Governor, Okezie Ikpeazu, was elected unopposed as the PDP senatorial candidate for Abia South. Declaring the result of the primary election at the Enyimba International Stadium Aba, the Returning Officer, Chief Ndidi Okereke, said Ikpeazu polled I98 votes. He added that the governor was the sole aspirant for the election. Also, Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi of Enugu State has won the PDP ticket for Enugu North Senatorial District. Ugwuanyi was declared the winner of the primary election held on Tuesday at the Nsukka Stadium in Nsukka Local Government Area of the state. Announcing the results, the returning officer, Yandev Ammabai, said Ugwuanyi polled 299 votes to defeat his closest rival, Eze Godwin, who scored 16 votes while Godsmack Ugwu and Okanye Celestine recorded zero. As of the time of filling this report, results of the Enugu East and Enugu West were yet to be announced. The House of Representatives’ Deputy Minority Whip, Adesegun Adekoya a.k.a Attacker, lost his bid in the contest for the party’s ticket for the federal constituency. Adekoya, who represents Ijebu North/Ijebu East/Ogun Waterside Federal Constituency, was defeated by Kehinde Bello. In the official results of the primary election seen by our correspondent, Bello polled 58 votes to defeat four other aspirants in the contest. The lawmaker representing Osun East in the Senate, Francis Fadahunsi, on Tuesday won the PDP ticket. Fadahunsi defeated a former member of the House of Representatives,Mr Gbenga Onigbogi. For Osun Central Senatorial District, Mr. Olubiyi Fadeyi defeated former chairman of Olorunda Local Government Area, Mr. Ganiyu Olaoluwa, to pick the party’s ticket. Also, the Speaker of the Adamawa State House of Assembly, Aminu Iya-Abbas, won the senatorial ticket of the PDP for Adamawa Central. Iya-Abbas, who represents Uba-Gaya Constituency in the state House of Assembly, defeated Auwal Tukur, son of former National Chairman of the PDP, Bamanga Tukur, and five other aspirants. Result of the primary declared in Yola on Monday saw him polling 125 votes against Tukur’s 54 votes and Ibrahim Baba’s 32 votes. Result for the Adamawa Southern Senatorial zone saw the return of the current Senator representing the zone, Sen. Binos Yaroe. He polled 232 votes to defeat his closest rival, Peter Fwa, who got 55 votes. Rev Amos Yohana won the ticket for Adamawa North with 123 votes to defeat three other aspirants, namely Zira Maigadi who got 28 votes, Ali Wampana who had 18 votes, and Philip Alango who got two votes. In Bayelsa State, the member representing Sagbama/Ekeremor Federal Constituency at the Federal House of Representatives, Fred Agbedi, won the PDP’s ticket for the House of Representatives election. At the Ogbia Federal Constituency, a former chairman of the Ogbia Local Government Area, Ebinyu Turner, won the PDP ticket defeating the incumbent member representing the federal constituency, Fred Obua, and a former Commissioner for Information and Orientation, Daniel Iworiso-Markson, as well as the lawmaker representing Ogbia 3 in the state House of Assembly, Mitema Obordor. Also, the member representing Yenagoa Constituency One in the state House of Assembly, Oforji Oboku, clinched the party’s ticket for the Yenagoa/Kolokuma Federal Constituency. At the Southern Ijaw Federal Constituency, Rodney Ambaiowei picked the ticket to vie for the seat in next year’s National Assembly polls. A former Commissioner for Transportation in the state, Marie Ebikake, also won the party’s ticket for the Nembe-Brass Federal Constituency. In Delta State, Erhiatake Ibori-Suenu, a daughter of a former governor of the state, Chief James Ibori, on Tuesday polled 46 votes against her rival, Ben Igbakpa, who scored only 22 votes in the PDP run-off primaries election for the Ethiope Federal Constituency of Delta. Ibori-Suenu and Igbakpa, had earlier tied by scoring 34 votes each when the primary was initially conducted. In another run-off election held at the Sapele Township Stadium for the Okpe/Sapele/Uvwie Federal Constituency, a former Commissioner for Water Resources, Evelyn Oboro, polled 45 votes against her opponent, Chief Napoleon Gbinije, who scored 36 votes. The duo had initially scored 25 votes each, when the primary was first conducted. A former member representing Zango-Kataf/Jaba Federal Constituency, Sunday Katung, on Tuesday picked the PDP’s ticket for Southern Kaduna Senatorial District. The incumbent member representing Kaba/Bunu/Ijumu Federal constituency, T. J Yusuf, defeated Senator Dino Melaye to clinch the senatorial ticket for Kogi West. A former banker, Dr Victor Adoji, clinched that of Kogi East. The Senator representing Bayelsa West, Seriake Dickson, picked the ticket for his re-election. In Ogun State, Ajibola Kalejaye won the ticket to contest Ogun East Senatorial District seat.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com