Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, on Wednesday in Taraba, said if given the opportunity to lead the country, he would serve with all his heart. He also noted that Nigerians would not regret electing him into office but would “realise indeed they have done the right thing.” Osinbajo was speaking on Wednesday during his visits to Taraba and Adamawa States, in continuation of his engagements with stakeholders and delegates of the ruling All Progressives Congress in the States. This is according to a statement signed by his Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity, Laolu Akande, titled ‘If given opportunity to be president, I’ll serve with all my heart—Osinbajo’. Osinbajo reportedly said, “My reason for aspiring for the office of the President of Nigeria is to serve the Nigerian people. I have no other reason or objective except to serve. “After one has been in office as Vice President for seven years, I know that God did not give me that opportunity so that I would sit down somewhere and write the history of my service as Vice President. “It is for the purpose of serving the people, and that is why I am so determined that if God gives me the opportunity to serve, the Nigerian people would realise indeed they have done the right thing by putting me in office because I would serve the country with everything, with all my heart and commitment.” Addressing the delegates in both states, the Vice President acknowledged all the support that has been offered towards his presidential bid, while again emphasising that his sole purpose for seeking the highest office of the land, was purely to serve Nigeria and give his heart for the country. Emphasising the importance of service to the people, Osinbajo said, “one of the very important things I want to share with delegates anywhere I go is that the role of the politician is an important one. “God has given us an opportunity to serve, and that opportunity is one that we must treasure and thank God for. Out of so many people in the country, those of you who are here are those who have been chosen in one way or the other, appointed or elected. “That position is not for our personal aggrandizement, it is to contribute to our society and make life better for our people. It is an opportunity to truly serve the people.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com