The Registrar of the Pharmacists’ Council of Nigeria, Dr Elijah Mohammed, has said that Nigeria has about 25,000 pharmacists, lamenting that, this is not enough to serve the country with a population of over 200m people. Mohammed who disclosed this in Lagos recently during a book launch/end of tenure ceremony held on his behalf said pharmacists should have a common sense of belonging and be concerned about how to render good pharmaceutical service to patients. The registrar urged pharmacists in the country to unite and work together with their professional colleagues and all stakeholders within the pharmaceutical industry in the interest of the patient. Mohammed said, “We have about 25,000 pharmacists in the country, these are not enough to serve the whole country. We need to carry out a reappraisal and see how good pharmaceutical services can be made available to all Nigerians, and by doing that, we have to leverage all stakeholders to ensure that what they are doing is right under the regulation of the PCN.” Speaking on the book titled, ‘’NAE Mohammed – The Transformative Leader”, the registrar, who was described by his colleagues and stakeholders in the pharmaceutical sector as a transformative leader, recalled that when he was first appointed registrar, there was a lot of division and discontent within the profession. The outgoing PCN Registrar said that his reason for being a pharmacist was to uphold patients’ welfare, stressing that the Nigerian pharmacists were not being overregulated. According to him, pharmacists are not overregulated in Nigeria, adding that they only appear to be so, because the laws on the ground are targeted mainly against pharmacists. He, however, said that in the implementation of the law, the pharmacists come into focus most of the time. Copyright PUNCH All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com