Four years after his demise, the basketball community continues to pay tribute to former Chairman, PUNCH Nigeria Ltd and Founder of Dolphins Female Basketball Foundation, late Mr. Gbadebowale Wayne Aboderin. A sports enthusiast and philanthropist, Aboderin died May 30, 2018 after heart surgery at the First Cardiology Consultants, Ikoyi, Lagos, aged 60. He was also a former Chairman, Lagos State Basketball Association and one-time Vice President, Nigerian Basketball Supporters Club. Speaking at the memorial basketball game in honour of the icon at the Dolphins Basketball Court, Ikeja, Lagos, Chairman, Nigerian Basketball Supporters Club, John Faniran, praised Aboderin for his strides in female basketball. He said, “The truth is no word can describe the man we are celebrating today; we are yet to find a man like him since his demise. He made female basketball what it is today in Nigeria and since he left us, no one has been able to take up that mantle.” Chairman, PUNCH Nigeria Ltd, Angela Emuwa, expressed delight at the initiative of the Dolphins team in honouring their late chairman. “When Dolphins approached me and said they wanted to do this in his memory, I was so excited because nothing had happened for a while. I was happy to hear about it because I know he did so much for them. He impacted their lives and I’m happy and excited,” she stated. Amazon Warriors coach, Dosu Mensah, added, “Aboderin was a very good friend of the house, death may have taken him away from us, but his legacies remain.” Bade Thomas, a former player and administrator, said, “Aboderin was a very passionate lover of basketball. He put in his best to ensure female basketball’s growth in the country and the good part about him is that he didn’t see them as just players; he saw them as one big family. Whatever achievement that we are enjoying internationally today cannot be complete without making reference to the contribution of the great man.” Femi Adekanye, a former Oluyole Warriors and Ebun Comets player was also full of praises for the late Aboedrin. “He was a philanthropist and a good person who put the girls ahead of any other thing. He always encouraged them and did everything possible to ensure basketball stayed at the top. He left a good legacy for us the younger ones to follow today.” Joy Ovie, a pioneer member of the Dolphins team, couldn’t hold back her tears when she spoke with our correspondent. She said, “He was a generous man and he spotted us when we were nobody and brought us into limelight to make us what we are today. He made us better people and his legacy will forever remain because if not for him, many of us will not be where we are today.” A member of the Dolphins basketball team, Hannah Akinsola, added, “It was an awesome experience for me to be part of Dolphins because I gained one or two things being a part of this great team. He named me aero and I never regretted being a part of his crew. “For me, the chairman was a fantastic person and it feels as if he is still with us. No one came into the team without achieving something and that’s the kind of person he was. He always makes sure we have something to do and he impacted positively in my life.” Legendary Nigeria hip hop artiste Idris Abdulkarim was one of the dignitaries at the event in honour of the fallen icon. Legendary Nigeria hip hop artiste Eedris Abdulkareem was one of the dignitaries at the event in honour of the icon.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com