Shippers, under the auspices of Shippers Association Delta State, have said that despite the ongoing dredging work at the Escravos channel at Warri Port, liner vessels cannot still berth. The President of group, Dr Austin Egbegbadia, who spoke to our correspondent over the phone on Sunday, said that currently, there were no liner vessels plying the Warri Port. Egbegbadia noted that shippers from that zone still had to come to Lagos to clear consignments whenever they arrived or needed to export. “Up till now, as we speak, I cannot clear my cargoes at Warri Port because my consignment comes in containers and there is no vessel or vessels coming with containerised goods into Warri Port. Containers are carried normally on what we call liner vessels and there are no liner vessels plying the Warri Port as we speak. The Managing Director of the Nigerian Ports Authority, Mohammed Bello-Koko, had last week, said that the agency had awarded the contract for remedial dredging of the Escravos Channel, noting that the dredging of the channel would help to expand the channel and enable bigger vessels to visit the port in Delta State. Bello-Koko said that the dredging, which had started and was about halfway done, would enable the port in Delta State to have a better draft, receive bigger vessels and record fewer incidences of vessels running aground, when completed. Reacting to this, Egbegbadia noted that vessels coming to Warri Port so far were chartered vessels. “Liner vessels are commercial vessels that carry goods from everybody into a port or carries from a port to different parts of the world. Vessels that come here so far are chartered vessels and strictly chartered vessels. Liner vessels are normally bigger vessels and such vessels only ply big draft channels, in other words, deep channels.” He said that Escravos was yet to be dredged to a reasonable draft where bigger vessels could come in. “So, the challenges are mainly because the Escravos channel has not been dredged to a reasonable depth that can accommodate liner vessels. It is near impossible for liner vessels to come, in fact, it is impossible for liner vessels to come. The minimum drought that can accommodate liner vessel is 14meters or at least 12 meters, and Warri Port is not up to that drought. The wider the channels, the better.” According to him, Warri Port had no problem of patronage  and had enough cargoes that could be shipped as non-oil exports to boost the economy of the country.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com