A tanker containing 45,000 litres of Premium Motor Spirit on Friday tumbled at Otedola Bridge, Lagos, causing multiple vehicle collisions. The tanker with an unknown registration number collided with four vehicles, leading to a fire incident. The Lagos State Emergency Management Agency confirmed the accident in a statement by its Permanent Secretary, Dr. Olufemi Oke-Osanyintolu. LASEMA’s statement read, “The Agency received distress calls via its toll-free number of a multiple vehicle collision and Overturned Tanker incident at Otedola Bridge and deployed its resources immediately to the scene. “Upon arrival of the Agency’s Tiger Squad at the Command and Control Centre, Alausa-Ikeja at the incident scene, it was observed that a multiple accident involving a tanker with unknown registration number conveying 45,000 litres of Premium Motor Spirit, PMS, and four vehicles had collided. “A joint team of Lagos State Fire Service, LASEMA Fire Team and Nigeria Police Force worked to manage the flames and the resultant traffic backlogs using chemical retardant to blanket the entire area so as to prevent fire disaster that could lead to loss of lives and properties. “Unfortunately, one adult male (motor-boy of the tanker) lost his life as a result of the impact of the collision. “The affected cars were recovered by the Agency’s light-duty equipment while effort is ongoing to trans-load the contents of the tanker into another truck before its recovery. “While the trans-loading of the content into another truck is ongoing, the carriageway has been opened for vehicular activities. “Members of the public are advised to refrain from illegal scooping of product and avoid igniting naked flame or fire to prevent any secondary incident that could result to loss of lives as the safety of lives and properties of Lagosians are of utmost priority to the administration of Mr Governor Babajide Olusola Sanwo-Olu.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com