The All Progressives Grand Alliance has maintained that Edozie Njoku is not its national chairman and that he can never become the party’s leader through the backdoor. The party, therefore, challenged Njoku to summon a meeting of APGA-elected officials to test his popularity as the “self-acclaimed” chairman. The National Coordinator, APGA Media Warriors Forum, Chinedu Obigwe, in a statement made available to journalists in Awka on Sunday, insisted that Victor Oye remains the party national chairman. Obigwe added that Oye has been working tirelessly to ensure success for the party during the forthcoming Ekiti governorship election and the primary. He accused Njoku of plotting to become the national chairman of the party through a concocted Supreme Court judgment he was parading. He said, “Njoku had earlier claimed that he will call a meeting of APGA elected officials. What is delaying him from doing that? “We challenge him to summon the meeting so that the whole Nigerians will see those that will honour the meeting. “Let him call the meeting and see if APGA-elected officials like Governor Chukwuma Soludo, former Governor Willie Obiano, Senator Victor Umeh and other elected officials of the party will honour the meeting or not. “The only reason why he will not call the meeting is because he knows very well that APGA leaders will not honour his meeting. So he is deceiving himself and nothing good will come out of it.” Obigwe advised any aspirant of the party not to fall victim to Njoku’s “fallacious” claims, saying that it will mean “entering a one-chance bus” for anyone doing so. He added that there was need to make the clarification so that the aspirants will not be deceived and also to defend the party’s integrity as well as its elected officers like Governor Chukwuma Soludo. He accused Njoku of presenting wrong facts about APGA and some party officials during his recent interview with Arise TV. He said, “Our attention was drawn to how Njoku gave a wrong description of some APGA officials on national TV and I laughed uncontrollably. “A presenter with Arise TV while interacting with Njoku about developments in APGA told him that despite his claim of having a Supreme Court order that allegedly made him APGA Chairman that one Chinedu Obigwe that claims to be the spokesman of APGA said that he is not APGA National Chairman. “Njoku in his reaction goofed by giving a wrong description of my person. Njoku told the presenter that I am Hon. Chinedu Obidigwe, who is a member of the House of Representatives. “This is a confirmation that Njoku is not well informed about APGA. I thought it wise to set the record straight for the benefit of Arise TV and the general public. I have never claimed to be the spokesman of APGA because APGA has a publicity secretary. “Each time I issue any press release, I sign it off as the national coordinator of APGA Media Warriors Forum. “I defend APGA as my party and again I do that in defence of the interest of our governor who is the leader of the party. “As for his wrong description of my person as Hon Chinedu Obidigwe, he only exposed himself that he doesn’t know APGA because I am not Chinedu Obidigwe. The two of us are different just that our names are similar. “But ardent supporters of APGA know about this and that was why one of them drew my attention to it and also sent the YouTube video to me for me to watch.” Efforts to speak to Njoku for his reaction proved abortive as calls and messages made to his mobile line for his reaction, were not responded to. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com