Sam Omwuemeodo, the spokesperson for ex-governor of Imo State, Rochas Okorocha, has asked God to show love to the leadership and officers of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission. He made the request to God a few minutes after justice Inyang Ekwo of the Federal High Court, Abuja, granted Okorocha bail in a N2.9bn fraud case preferred against him by the EFCC. Omwuemeodo issued the statement in Owerri, expressing gratitude to the jurist for granting the bail application. He also expressed appreciation to Nigerians who prayed for Okorocha’s freedom since he was arrested by the anti-graft agency. The statement partly read, “We want to inform the general public that Justice lnyang Ekwo of the Federal High Court Abuja, has graciously granted bail to His Excellency, Senator Rochas Okorocha. “His Lordship, in his wisdom, granted Okorocha bail on Tuesday, May 31, 2022,(today). “Okorocha had remained in the custody of the EFCC since the invasion of his private residence and subsequent arrest. “He was taken to court on Monday, May 30, 2022, with five others over alleged N2.9 fraud. He pleaded not guilty to the charge. “Today, Tuesday, May 31, 2022, Justice Ekwo magnanimously granted bail to the former governor of lmo State and Senator representing lmo West senatorial district. “We thank God for this juicy and lofty development. “We thank Nigerians within and outside who had continued to send correspondences to show concerns over the fate of the foremost African philanthropist. We remain grateful for their genuine concern. “We also thank those who had devoted their precious time to prayers for God’s intervention. “Most importantly, our gratitude goes to justice Ekwo, who had seen the efficacy of granting bail to the Ogboko-born enigma. “Equally, we pray that the Almighty God would bless the astute lawyers handling the case, immensely. They have remained wonderful. “We ask God to show love to the leadership and officers of the EFCC and grant them their heart desires.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com