An economist and Labour Party governorship aspirant in Abia State, chief Alex Otti, has congratulated the former governor of Anambra State, Mr Peter Obi, on his emergence as the Labour Party’s presidential candidate in the just concluded presidential primary held in Asaba, Delta State. Otti, in a statement by his Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Mr Ferdinand Ekeoma, on Tuesday, explained that the excitement, support and solidarity which Obi’s presidential ambition had across political, ethnic and religious lines were a clear manifestation that honest Nigerians of all classes cherished excellence when and where they saw it. He stated, “Obi, is a national asset, a beacon of hope, and a colossus of high proportion whose administrative skills, managerial acumen and honourable disposition in leadership have contributed immensely in resetting and reshaping the hitherto pervasive mindset of mediocrity and profligacy in public service.” The ex-bank chief expressed joy that his June 8, 2020 article published in his Backpage column in a national newspaper captioned “The Triumph of Profligacy Over Prudence” dedicated to Obi, which x-rayed Obi’s leadership excellence and accomplishments anchored on cost-cutting, was being made manifest today as many Nigerians had begun to see the genius in the man he had known for years. Otti further explained that the mere fact that another accomplished and iconic Nigerian, Prof. Pat Utomi, found Obi worthy enough of being stepped down for in the presidential primary, spoke eloquently about how highly placed and revered Obi was in the Nigeria of today. He also used the opportunity to salute the internationally respected intellectual, Prof. Utomi, who was the sponsor of his wedding close to 30 years ago, for his sacrifice for good governance in the country. The governorship hopeful thanked Labour Party leaders and members for finding Obi worthy of flying its flag and prayed that God would give Obi the strength and wisdom to pursue his presidential contest smoothly and emerge victorious. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com