The spokesperson for Coalition of United Political Parties, Ugochinyere Imo, on Wednesday, said that the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), had lost the goodwill he would have garnered from Nigerians had he toed the path of political settlement in the matter between the Federal Government and the leader of the Indigenous People of Biafra, Nnamdi Kanu. Imo, who briefed journalists in Owerri, Imo State, after the Federal High Court in Abuja denied Kanu bail, said it was “unfair that Justice Binta Nyako denied Kanu’s bail application.” Imo said the trial judge failed to understand the circumstances under which Kanu fled the country in 2017. Imo said that Buhari had the solution to the trial of the IPOB leader saying that the president had the constitutional power to order for Kanu’s release. The activist said “the president had the powers to issue a nolli prosequi so that Nnamdi Kanu could be released from detention as a way forward in bringing a political solution to IPOB’s agitation.” According to Imo, it was equally ridiculous that the Federal Government could file additional charges against Kanu and even added the same charges against his lawyers. Imo said, “By denying Nnamdi Kanu bail this morning, we lost a great opportunity to kick-start the political solution to these problems. “Nobody is happy with what is happening in South East today. It will be in national interest if the president can just issue a nolli prosequi so that we can release this man and just put him somewhere even if in a house so that we can stop all these destructions going on in the South-East. “If the president can pardon those who stole our money, as we saw in Joshua Dariye and Jolly Nyake, granted pardon to Niger Delta militants and even rehabilitated them; granted amnesty to some Boko Haram elements, some of who absolved in the military and police, I don’t see why he can not order the release of Nnamdi Kanu to demonstrate a good faith and his interest in seeing that peace returns to the country. “I am equally shocked that the judge said she did not know the circumstances under which Nnandi Kanu jumped bail. “We all knew that Nnamdi Kanu did not jump bail. He was in his house receiving visitors when soldiers invaded his home and this was well reported and documented. “So it’s ridiculous to say that she failed to understand the circumstances under which Kanu jumped bail.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com