Michael Adebayo, aka Ruger’s unflinching dedication to actualising his music dream has made him one of the fast-rising forces to reckon with in the Nigerian music industry. In this interview with Olamide Famuwagun, the 21-year-old gives an insight into his music journey. Kindly tell us about your career development up to the point you are currently? Basically, I started by making freestyles on Instagram and posting videos during my leisure times. The videos caught the attention of the Jonzing World and D Prince. He called me to start working and recording in the studio, from then till now, I’ve been very excited about how everything has been going fast. I thank God, I thank my fans and I thank my crew. Our major drive is to do what we’ve always done. I’ve grown immensely and currently on my world tour, ‘the Rugged World Tour’ and I can’t wait to see my fans all over the world. How did you know that music was your calling? Normally, I used to sing in the church choir because I’ve always loved music. But I became sure of it when I started composing music in high school and from then, it was just flowing. Gradually, I started understanding the process and I’ve continued with it since then. What were your parents’ reaction after realising you chose music as your preferred career choice? Well, they (parents) knew I love music, so they were cool with it. They loved the fact that I decided to do something for myself and especially something that I loved. I think parents should support their children in doing what they love and not just what they want for them as parents because there is an 80% possibility of a child being successful at what he/she loves than what the parents want for the child. My parents have been very supportive and prayerful. How were you and your sound discovered? Constant work helped me discover my sound. It is not easy to discover your sound but as long as you continue working, it just comes out itself. In the process of continuing to work, you get something extraordinary. So, constant work helped me discover and nurture my sound. You were once in the church choir and sang gospel songs, how easy was it to move from church music to secular music? Well, even in the church, some people there still go out to listen to secular music on their own. So, it was pretty easy for me. Have you ever found music to be exhausting, if yes, how were you able to handle the pressure to meet the demands of the music audience? Yes, music itself can be exhausting at times. The work, going out for shows can be exhausting but you have to keep yourself motivated to keep going. How I handle the pressure is by not paying attention to it. I just do my music and enjoy the day; whatever happens at the end of the day happens. I don’t pay attention to pressure; I pay attention rather to my music and spirituality. What do you see yourself doing if you had not followed your music dream? It’s music or nothing. What are your views on the current state of the Nigerian music industry? What positive changes do you think should be injected? I feel everything is in place. Our sound is worldwide now; Nigerian music is also worldwide now, so it shows our music industry must be doing something well. I’m happy to be a part of a generation that has an input. Can you illuminate more on your recent fallout with DJ Dimple Nipple? No Comment. You recently had an encounter with a fan who touched you immorally while you were performing on stage, how did you feel after this incident? No Comment. Have you had such an experience before? No, that was the first time. Will the incident affect your behavior with female fans? The incident did not in any way affect my behaviour with female fans. I remain in good rapport with my female fans. If it were a female celebrity that the incident happened to, do you think Nigerians would have reacted the same way they did after your experience? Yes, if it was a female celebrity it would have been much worse. You’re currently on tour, how do you keep up with moving from one stage to another; travelling from place to place and all other experiences? How do you make it all happen? What makes it happen for me is my team. Your team is your motivation at the end of the day. I stay healthy, drink a lot of water to avoid breakdown because it is not easy but I make sure to get back to work.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com