A Nigerian firm, GbemiDH, has launched a new fragrance collection and an e-commerce website. This was contained in a press statement from the firm on Sunday. It read in part, “Leading Nigerian fine living brand GbemiDH has introduced new variants to its popular home fragrance line, DreamHome Scents, offering its discerning customers greater choice. The new collection boasts 15 exciting scents in reed diffusers, room sprays, car diffusers and scent sachets. The brand has also launched a new website www.gbemidh.com for ease of shopping.” The Creative Director, DreamHome, Gbemi Elekula, was quoted in the statement as saying, “With its proven links to emotion and memory, scent is an integral part of how you feel within your own home or office, and how your guests feel about your space. An expertly chosen home fragrance can elevate a cherished sanctuary to new heights of comfort. That is why we have curated these beautiful fragrances. “Comparable to the best anywhere in the world, DreamHome Scents are produced from the finest natural ingredients and purest essential oils, intimately mixed to create the most pleasurable scent experience in any space. The potent oils in our blends can help to balance emotions, diffuse unnecessary worries, and promote an uplifted state of mind and general wellbeing.” On the e-commerce website, Elekula said, “There’s a growing demand for our products within and outside the country. With the introduction of the gbemidh.com website, we want to make it easier for our esteemed customers to shop DreamHome’s range of fragrances, and other lifestyle products—including arty furniture, décor accessories and HUMANx fashion pieces—and have them delivered anywhere in the world. The website accepts all major payment cards, and it is very responsive, safe and secure.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com