The Lagos State Government has postponed the 2022 Basic Education Certificate Examination for Junior Secondary School 3 students. The Director of the examination board, S.S Gbadegesin, made this known in a circular addresed to principals of both public and private Junior Secondary Schools. In the circular cited by The PUNCH, the board noted that some private schools were yet to be issuesld their Optical Mark Readers for the examination. The statement read, “The Y2022 Basic Education Certificate Examination was scheduled to commence on Wednesday, 1st June, 2022 and end on Wednesday, 8th June, 2022. As of today Tuesday, 31st May, 2022, most of the Public Junior Secondary Schools have been issued their OMRs (Optical Mark Readers). “However, most registered approved Private Junior Secondary Schools and a handful of Public Junior Secondary Schools have been issued PINs a long time ago but are yet to upload the bio-data of their candidates into the Board’s Database, hence the delay in the printing of their OMRs. “Consequent upon this, it is imperative that the Year 2022 Basic Education Certificate Examination be rescheduled to accommodate these Schools, as the Board does not wish to deny the affected candidates the opportunity of taking the Examination. “Therefore, the Y2022 Basic Education Certificate Examination earlier scheduled to hold from Wednesday, 1st June – Wednesday, 8th June, 2022 is hereby rescheduled to hold Wednesday, 8th June and end Wednesday, 15th June 2022. “While regretting all inconveniences that may arise from the postponement, the Board hereby urges all affected Schools to ensure an immediate upload of bio-data of their candidates latest tomorrow Wednesday, 1st June, 2022 for their OMRs to be produced on or before Friday 3rd June, 2022. “Any school which fails to comply does so at her own risk.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com