A presidential aspirant on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party, Peter Obi, has stated that Nigeria is going through difficult times and collapsing under the regime of the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.). Obi, who stated this while trying to woo delegates of the PDP’s national convention from Bauchi State at a brief meeting held at the Command Guest House, promised that if given the opportunity of being Nigeria’s next President, he would change the trajectory and set the country on the path of development. “The country is going through a very difficult time now, collapsing. For the future of our children, we must change the country’s trajectory by ensuring that we move this country from consumption to production, from sharing to creating. “We must build a better place; we must change our country because we cannot continue with this level of underdevelopment, this level of insecurity, with this level of problems all over the place. So, we must do the needful to ensure that in 2023, our party must have a candidate that has the capacity, competence, and commitment to building a better Nigeria,” he said. The two-term former Anambra State Governor lamented the huge rising debt profile of the country since the Buhari administration came on board, saying that all countries of the world borrow but pointed out that while others use the borrowed funds to develop and improve their country and people, Nigeria borrows to share; “all that we require to take the country out of poverty is to invest a lot, invest in our GDP.” He informed the delegates that he could tackle the security challenges bedeviling the country just as he admonished them to think about their children’s future while voting during the convention. Also on Monday, Former President of the Senate, Bukola Saraki, on Monday, met with former President Olusegun Obasanjo behind closed-doors, saying Nigeria is in a very delicate situation. He warned that a wrong choice of President would spell doom for the country. Saraki, who was accompanied by a former National Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party, Abubakar Baraje, arrived the premises of the Olusegun Obasanjo Presidential Library at about 12.04 pm. While emerging from the meeting, Saraki explained the reason behind his visit to Obasnjo. He said, “I’m in Ogun State to see PDP delegates, but I can’t come to Ogun state and not pay a visit to the former President, our father and leader of modern Nigeria, somebody I am very close to since I started my political career, so I came to see him to let him know that I am in Ogun State and to see how good and how well he is doing.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com