A popular senatorial aspirant for Delta Central Senatorial District on the platform of All Progressives Congress, Chief Ede Dafinone has said that the APC would take over Delta State from the Peoples Democratic Party come 2023. Dafinone, a renowned chartered accountant stated that the APC was now a more united political family, ready to lock horns with the PDP to win all the highest political seats in the state in the forthcoming general election. He expressed this optimism during a visit to the APC leaders in Ethiope East, Okpe, and Uvwie Local Government Areas in continuation of his consultation with party delegates in the Delta Central Senatorial District ahead of the party primary election. The senatorial aspirant boasted that the APC would capitalise on the current unity in the party to take over Delta in the next political dispensation. According to him, more than ever before, party elders including the Deputy President of the Senate, Senator Ovie Omo-Agege, have been working assiduously to close ranks with a view to winning more Deltans into the party to defeat PDP at the polls. He said, “In the last election, the party (APC) was factionalised, and we were not united.  But today, under the Deputy Senate President, Ovie Omo-Agege, the party is not only united, we are ready to take over Government House in Delta. But to do that successfully, it will need our collective efforts”. He also said that Omo-Agege’s achievement since he was elected into the National Assembly has not only been a thing of pride to the Urhobo nation but has made campaigning for the party at coming general election a lot easier. Dafinone urged the party leaders to support his aspiration as their senatorial candidate promising to build on the achievements recorded by Senator Omo-Agege. He enjoined the APC leadership and party faithful across Delta State to rally round Senator Omo-Agege in the determination by the party to take over Delta State. During his visit to the Ethiope East Local Government Area, the APC leaders in the locality formally pledged their support for Dafinone’s aspiration as they insisted that the Urhobo nation must send their best hands to represent them at all levels in the country and beyond. They urged Dafinone to be prepared to step into the shoes of the Deputy Senate President. Speaking on their behalf, the APC chairman in the LGA, Chief Julius Ogboru said, “You are already there. Your father is a core politician with great ideas. I want you to follow in the footsteps of your father. Be in his shoes. if your father was the man of the people, I know you are. Who is coming to challenge you in this position, you will win because I know you are there already”. The APC chairman in Okpe Local Government, Eric Afe, also spoke in the same vein as he acknowledged the competence of Chief Ede Dafinone and remarked that the Okpe cannot fail in supporting him. “We have no doubt about your ability. You are qualified and very experienced to carry out the good work of replacing our Senator, DSP Ovie Omo-Agege at the National Assembly. He has set the standard and we must say nobody is more suitable than you and you will go on to conquer”, he said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com