The Deputy Speaker of the Lagos State House of Assembly, Wale Eshinlokun, speaks with OLUWAFEMI MORGAN about his work at the legislative house, his ambition to represent the Lagos Central Senatorial District in the Senate and other related issues As Deputy Speaker of the Lagos State House of Assembly, you’re no doubt a high-ranking lawmaker in the state. Can you give us a glimpse into your background and journey in politics? I was born on Lagos Island and I am from the Eshinlokun royal family. I am also from Eti-Osa, Ajah, and its environs. How did you join politics? As a young graduate and bachelor, I was the Vice Chairman of the SDP (Social Democratic Party) in my ward. I was with NADECO (National Democratic Coalition); I did not join the Interim Government. I was part of the resistance. I was also the pioneer Secretary of the APC (All Progressives Congress) in Lagos State. In terms of elective and appointment positions, I was first elected into the Lagos State House of Assembly in 2003. I became the Senior Special Assistant to Asiwaju Bola Tinubu until around 2007. I was the pioneer secretary of the Lagos State Microfinance Institution and I, later on, got elected as the Chairman, Lagos Island Local Government Area. I served two terms – between 2008 and 2014. After that, I became the state secretary of the APC and I was elected into the Lagos State House of Assembly again in 2015. This will be my third term cumulatively, and I have been the Deputy Speaker since 2015. But people say you have not made remarkable contributions in terms of bill sponsorship in the house? That can’t be true. Of importance are some bills of national prominence, including the Constituency Project Development Bill, which became a law. That was the law that was taken to the National Assembly, precisely to the Senate and it has been of importance in some other states. The second major one is the bill on financial autonomy for the legislature, which I co-sponsored with a friend and a colleague. It became law in Lagos since 2000; I think i crept into the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria just last year. The most important thing is that since 2015, no bill can be passed without a public hearing – 95 or 98% of the public hearing; I was the one to respond to all concerns and comments by the stakeholders. You’ve been a Lagos lawmaker for 11 years and now you’re said to have joined the 2023 senatorial race. What exactly do you find attractive about lawmaking because you could have aspired to some other political position? I have been in an executive position before; I was chairman of a local government; I ran my government; I even became a household name on Lagos Island, because of my role as chairman of the local government. My first love for governance was in the legislature; that was when I got elected to the House of Assembly in 1999. I had tried to be elected in 1991, but I was not successful. I even wanted to go to the House of Representatives in 1992, but I wasn’t successful. I think I enjoy doing the job, it is interesting, it involves working with colleagues, trying to build consensus, trying to lobby others to get what you want and all those intrigues make it attractive. How did you determine that your job at the level of the state Assembly is done and you have to move up? When there is a vacancy, apparently when the senator representing the constituency, Senator Oluremi Tinubu, decided that she was not going to seek re-election, it became necessary for someone to step out and take up that responsibility. So, that was why I thought that I should give it a shot. In late 2020, Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu spoke about sending a bill to the Lagos State House of Assembly for the abrogation of the Public Office Holder (Payment of Pension Law 2007), which provides for payment of pension and other entitlements to former governors and deputies governors of the state. What is the status of the bill? Has it been abandoned because we no longer hear about it? As far as the legislature is concerned we have done our part of the job and we have sent it to the governor for assent. We have done what we think is right. I was at the public hearing and as I told you, I responded to concerns and questions during the public hearing of the bill. Whatever is in the bill right now is what we agreed on at the stakeholders’ meeting. So, it is only for the governor to assent to the bill and I am sure that it must have been sent to him. In 2015, the Lagos House of Assembly proposed a life pension for Speaker and Deputy Speaker. What was the rationale behind that and what is the status of the bill now? The bill is no more forthcoming. It was dropped by the leadership of the House so they discontinued treating the bill at a particular point in time. Why was it dropped? I don’t know, but whenever we want to work on a bill, we pay attention to the happenings around us; as lawmakers, we are sensitive to our constituents and the environment. I guess we dropped it because we needed to do so. How much do Lagos lawmakers earn? That one is public knowledge, I don’t know what you mean by how much they earn. I mean, in terms of salaries and allowances? Salaries, I am not sure but after taxation, it is about N769, 000. The Lagos Central Senatorial District you’re gunning for is currently being occupied by Mrs Oluremi Tinubu. Do you have her support and that of her husband, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, who is the leader of your party? As the foremost leader in Lagos, Asiwaju has been playing his fatherly role and we applaud him for that, and the current occupier of the senate district, they have been playing their roles; they have been fathers and mothers to all aspirants. So, do you have his blessings to run? I said they have been playing their roles and we are in sync with the role they are playing. They didn’t tell me that they are not giving me their blessings. If we are many, as a father, you would be careful, and for us, they have given us a level playing field for us to explore. How would you appraise the performance of Senator Remi Tinubu? I think she has performed well. Before her, we have had other senators and I want to say that she has been the best out of the lot. I think that she has done marvellously well, that if you are coming to replace her you must endeavour to match her performance. For me, if she is to be scored, I think she has made a name for herself. You know Yoruba will say, won ki f’ola ji’yo (it’s not proper for one person to enjoy all benefits), especially when you are there and you are the wife of the national leader, and so on. But for her, she has done so well that we cannot ask for more. She is very diligent, honest, hard-working, resourceful and dynamic; she is a wonderful woman. We only hope that we will continue with what she had done. She has a template on how to give back to society,| so I will try to keep up with it while I hope that we will also be able to add my bit to it. With the current emergence of heavyweights in the South-West, do you think that former governor Bola Ahmed Tinubu would emerge APC’s presidential candidate? I don’t know about the classification, whether heavyweight, mid-weight or lightweight; all I know is that Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu is more deserving of the position than many of them. When you look at the antecedent of the APC and his contributions, his contributions to the political development of the nation, that he was there for NADECO, a sponsor, an activist, and what have you, and that has been able to help most of them to attain various positions. That they have come out is their right, but Asiwaju Tinubu is, for us, the best candidate. Do you think that some items in the Exclusive Legislative List need to be brought to the concurrent list in the Nigerian constitution? The Exclusive Legislative List is too unwieldy, so, some of those items should be brought to the concurrent list. Even for me, they don’t necessarily have to be brought to the concurrent list because the items are just too many, they should just be left for the states to administer and make laws on. If you put them in the concurrent list and there is a law or an Act of parliament of the National Assembly, it will supersede the law made by the states, so we will still be talking about the same thing. I think they should simply be left to the states to legislate upon without the interference of the centre. You have been in politics since 1999; do you think that Nigeria and the citizenry have made progress since the return of democracy in 1999? Well, it is not Eldorado, there is still a lot to be done and I think with time we will get there. For now, in Nigeria, democracy is the preferred option. I think that in 1999, when we were elected, Lagos was the dirtiest city in Africa; that was the appellation then, but it is now the finest city in Africa. That is to say that some people have put in some work, it might not be excellent but I am sure that Lagos State is doing its bit to justify the enthronement of democracy in the country. As far as the Federal Government is concerned, I know the concerns of the people, the security issue, and the economy. The problem is due to the emergence of COVID-19 and the low prices of crude oil in the international market. The quantity of crude oil being produced also dropped. But right now, it is not the case, it has improved over time but it has not got to where it was during the Jonathan era. There seems to be an aggrieved Ambode caucus within the Lagos APC. Do you think they have a strong base and can they shake the existing structures of the party? Not possible, they don’t (have a strong base). But they remain in the party despite their grievances? I don’t know if they have grievances; I am not privy to that. If they do have grievances, I am sure that Governor Akinwumi Ambode is a member of the Governing Advisory Council, he has also been given appointments and roles by the national body of the APC. I am sure that he knows where to vent his grievances and seek redress. He is a big man in the party. How would you appraise Governor Babajide Sanwoolu of Lagos State? I will be biased because that is saying that I should mark myself, because where there is a separation of responsibilities between the executive and the legislature but we still work as one and whatever performance that he has will rub off on us and it is our prayer that he continues to perform to the satisfaction of the populace or citizens of Lagos. For us, he has the pass mark that is why he is getting the nod for the second term.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com