Seun Ogunniyi, an All Progressives Congress aspirant seeking to represent the Ojomu/Balogun State Constituency in the Offa Local Government Area at the Kwara State House of Assembly, has said imposition and godfatherism have no place in the ruling party. The aspirant said he would bring quality representation into legislative affairs and deliver the dividends of democracy to the people of his constituency if elected. He spoke in a chat with our correspondent on Wednesday and expressed optimism that just like in 2019, he would win the Assembly seat in 2023. Ogunniyi said, “I won the primary election in 2019, and my mandate was given to another in the interest of peace and stability of the party. The reason was the local dynamics in my local government. “As of then, the person to whom my ticket was given to was contesting the House of Representatives position and ultimately, it will be very unfair for one singular local government within the senatorial district to have the Senate and House of Representatives at the same time. So, my own ticket was relinquished.” The aspirant said he was not afraid that the 2019 scenario would play out this time around. “I have paid my dues and I’m certain of victory this time to the extent that stakeholders and leaders of the party are mindful of this huge sacrifice. I have participated immensely in the development of Ofa. I have been involved in a lot of community projects, electrification and water supply projects in my constituency,” he added. Ogunniyi said he was not worried about the exclusion of statutory delegates from party primary tomorrow (Thursday). “I have reached out broadly across all interests and tendencies in the party and I am confident that I have been well-received by all party stakeholders within the state and the constituency. I am not afraid because whatever happens will be in line with the party’s constitution and the Electoral Act,” he explained. On imposition and godfatherism, he said, “The APC is a progressive party and the norms and values of constitutional democracy are well-enshrined. So, as much as there are leaders within the party, imposition is not recognised under the framework of constitutional representation in the party. Ogunniyi added though he doesn’t believe in godfatherism, he has the support of Governor AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq who has done excellently well in bringing Kwara out of the woods. “The governor is the father of all. So, I have the endorsement of His Excellency,” he added. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com