The Lagos State Government has challenged parents on the retrieval of moral values which are fast eroding in the society. The state Commissioner for Tourism, Arts and Culture, Mrs Uzamat Akinbile-Yusuf, who gave the challenge, said a society desirous of bequeathing a dignified and peaceful generation must be deliberate about preserving its culture and religion, indigenous languages, propagate the family system, invest time to train youths in addition to enshrining a tradition of integrity. According to a statement on Thursday by the ministry’s Public Affairs Officer, ‘Remi Oladeinde, the commissioner stated this at a lecture organised to commemorate World Culture Day in Ikeja. Akinbile-Yusuf who spoke on the theme, Evaluating our moral values to tackle the spate of violence and other vices in the society, was represented by the Chief Executive Officer, Lagos State Council for Arts and Culture, Mr Oladusi Komolafe. Calling for urgent action, she said, “The continuous eroding of moral values across board depicts a disconnect in the nexus between the home, schools and the larger society.” “We must redouble our efforts through a multi-pronged approach to retrieve the values.” Also speaking, President of the Association of African Traditional Religions of Nigeria, Chief Ifasegun Elegushi, urged parents to teach their children manners and etiquette. Represented by the association’s first vice-president, Foluso Adeogun-Ogae, he said, “It is urgent to return to the basics. Parents should be the child’s first teachers in manners and etiquette.” In her submission, Dr Adeyinka Olarinmoye of the Department of Sociology, Lagos State University lamented the conduct of citizens in all strata of the society, saying that civilisation shouldn’t be taken hook, line and sinker. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com