Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike, has said that Nigeria cannot end insecurity ravaging the country without establishing state police system. He also said that without intelligence, the war against terrorism could not be won. Wike, who is a presidential aspirant in the Peoples Democratic Party, said these on Thursday, when he visited Ibadan, the Oyo State capital, to meet with delegates to the party’s National Convention scheduled for the end of the month. These were contained in a statement issued by the Chief Press Secretary to Oyo State Governor, Taiwo Adisa, on Thursday. The River state governor said he believed strongly in restructuring, adding that state police was a panacea to the insecurity challenges facing the country. Wike said that Nigerians were aware of his views on restructuring and state police, noting that any country that practices true federalism knows that policing and intelligence gathering are key to surmounting insecurity challenges. He said, “Nigerians know my views, as I believe in restructuring and state Police. Let nobody deceive you, we cannot stop insecurity in this country without state police. “In all the countries that practice true federalism, the Federal Government has its own police, the state has its own police. Local councils have theirs too. Go to those countries, the police know who is living where and that is how we can bring down insecurity. If you like, go to America and buy 50 Tucano jets, it won’t work. Who are you bombing? Intelligence is key. You must have intelligence.” The Rivers State governor, who appreciated South-West PDP delegates for being his pillar of support, tasked Nigerians to allow an individual with character and integrity, who is firm and courageous, become the next president. He stated that he remains the best candidate that the PDP could put forward as its presidential standard-bearer. Wike added: “Allow people who have character, which is part of the qualities of leadership. Allow people with integrity. A leader must be firm and courageous. “What PDP requires now is you having the leadership quality to put the best of heads and you being able to supervise and coordinate and give out functions. Governance is totally a different ball game. “By the special grace of God and with God on our side, today, we can say that if the primaries are conducted transparently on the 28th of May, we will emerge. “The Tsunami of support all over the country, whether it is in the North, in the West, in the East, or in the South, the support is so overwhelming than you can imagine. Let them formally announce myself as the candidate of the party. I mean, if you look at the situation on the ground, who actually do you think the party will give this ticket to? “Don’t be bothered about social media comments that people manufacture and put up there. See what has happened here today. That tells you everything and you can rest assured that if you have the South-West, you can be sure to go home when it is over and then give thanks to the almighty God. On his part, Makinde had while receiving Wike declared the support of South-West PDP delegates for the Rivers State governor. “I want to thank the delegates but there is really nothing much to say. If people say that Seyi Makinde and PDP delegates from the South-West of Nigeria are supporting Governor Wike, what will you tell them? Just let them know there is a reason behind the support.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com