All Progressives Congress chieftain, Bola Tinubu, has submitted his Nomination and Expression of Interest forms for the presidential primary election of the party scheduled for end of May. Tinubu submitted the forms to the party on Wednesday at the International Conference Centre, Abuja. He was represented by Lagos State Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu; House of Representatives member from Ikeja Federal Constituency, James Faleke; a former Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Babachir Lawal; former Chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, Nuhu Ribadu, amongst others. The PUNCH gathered that Tinubu secured 370 delegates from across the country to complete the submission of his presidential forms. It was earlier reported that as a precondition for submitting their expression of interest and nomination forms, the ruling party had mandated its presidential aspirants to submit the forms with the signatures of 10 statutory delegates from each state and the Federal Capital Territory. Our correspondent, who sighted the forms, observed that each aspirant was required to get the signatures of 370 statutory delegates, covering the 36 states of the federation and the Federal Capital Territory. Tinubu was reportedly the first to submit his N100m presidential form among 28 aspirants on the platform of the APC. They are: Vice-President Yemi Osinbajo; the Minister of State for Education, Emeka Nwajuiba; Lagos pastor, Tunde Bakare’ Governor Mohammed Badaru of Jigawa State; his Ebonyi State counterpart, Dave Umahi; Governor Yahaya Bello of Kogi State; ex-Imo State Governor, Rochas Okorocha; the Minister of Niger Delta Affairs, Godswill Akpabio; Minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi; Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria, Godwin Emefiele; Ms Unu Onaneye, the only female and Nicholas Felix. Others include Governor Ben Ayade of Cross River; ex-Governor of Edo State, Adams Oshiomhole; Governor Kayode Fayemi of Ekiti State; the Minister of Labour and Employment, Chris Ngige; former Governor Ibikunle Amosun of Ogun State; ex-Speaker, Dimeji Bankole; and Senate President Ken Nnamani; Minister of Science and Technology, Onu; and the Minister of State for Petroleum Resources, Timipre Sylva; as well as former President Goodluck Jonathan. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com