Dear Mummy Temilolu, Thank you very much for your precious advice because they are not only helping the young people of Nigeria but also helping the young Congolese. May the God you elevate in your publications remember you in Jesus name! Elope Malundama Dear Madam Temilolu, This is just to let you know “I love you die!” I mean I love you too much! You’re one in a million! The bitter truth that can rarely be heard or taught even by our religious leaders is what you bombard us with. Please don’t stop ma! May God bless you ma! Naomi Yusuf Dear Evangelist Temilolu, You are indeed an Apostle of Chastity! I just read one of your articles and I must say I’m so touched! God will bless you ma! I promise to keep my virginity till my wedding night, so help me God! But ma, it’s really hard to see a guy who will agree to wait till your wedding night but I shall keep praying to God daily to send a good guy my way! Thanks ma. Joy Yaba Dearest parents, This is a serious matter and nothing to do with sexual purity this time! An 18-year-old girl who has found it difficult for months to get over a guy who refuses to have a romantic relationship with her accuses him of raping her and he gets arrested! I’d leave out his ordeal! But for the said meeting point- the guy’s friend’s house which had CCTV cameras, this guy would probably be chilling in jail now-awaiting his trial! Parents…parents…mothers especially- please can you tell your daughters there’s nothing wrong in rejection and disappointment? Please can you just tell them they can make the most of such situations and get a deal 10 times better? Can you just drum it into their ears that there’s time for everything and to have the very best of life, they must prioritise it? You see the reason I will keep saying teenagers DO NOT NEED TO BE IN A ROMANTIC RELATIONSHIP! They simply lose all sense of proportion and expend too much energy and passion on inanities-much to their detriment, losing focus on laying a solid foundation for their future in a highly-competitive world where only the fittest can survive. Check out the imagination she should be using to acquire solid grades, invent, shatter glass ceilings and achieve what no Nigerian woman has achieved globally etc. Instead, she’s so full of bitterness to the point of totally destroying a destiny! What a wicked soul! Believe me, when I was approached to counsel her and I wondered who raised her, I was duly informed that she was away from home for five days without her mother knowing her whereabouts!  My shoulders dropped! To think this same woman fiercely backed her daughter up saying her daughter wouldn’t lie about such until the evidence was produced! She then confessed that she just wanted to punish him. Haaa. Females more often than not turn out to become a product of what their mothers instilled in them and what they watched her do while growing up. I can also tell you that girls whose fathers suffocate with LOVE and ATTENTION rarely feel let down by men! They will always shake off the dust of pain and rejection and aim higher because their No.1 hero already laid a solid foundation for that and I don’t need to tell you they turn out  successful- with or without a man! Who do you want your daughter to become in future? An emotionally-unstable lady, a nervous wreck, a satanic manipulator, a weapon in the hands of the devil or an empire, an institution, a fortress, an amazon, a spiritual house or a power house of glory which the world including  PATRIARCHY will salute till Jesus comes? You’d have to choose one and it’s really up to you ma! According to my high school Yoruba teacher- “Kosi r’eje ninu photo, bo ba se joko lo se ma ba ‘ra e!” As you lay your bed, so you lie on it! May our children not make us cry in regret in future! May they turn out to be great signs and wonders in Jesus name. I invite you to follow me on Facebook –TEMILOLU OKEOWO Instagram @ Okeowotemilolu Are you still engaging in pre-marital sex? Each act devalues you! Your wonders are waiting to start. God is waiting for you to become a secondary virgin! You are most welcome on board the chastity campaign train and Girls Club is open for all girls and ladies. Please text your name, age, school or occupation and state of domicile to 07086620576.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com