The Commissioner representing the South-East in the Police Service Commission, Onyemuche Nnamani, has said the recent promotion of some police officers of Igbo origin will signal a bright future for the Igbo in the Nigeria Police Force. Nnamani said this while speaking to journalists during a supervision of the on-going medical screening of police applicants in Zone 9 Umuahia, Abia State and Zone 13 Ukpo, Anambra State on Tuesday, May 24, 2022. Congratulating two policewomen from the South-Eastern part of the country, Ngozi Onadeko and Josephine Nna, who were recently promoted to the rank of Assistant Inspector General of Police, he said, “These promotions will obviously signal a bright future for Igbo in the NPF, especially with the recent cries of marginalisation from the South-East zone.” Onadeko is the incumbent Commissioner of Police, Oyo State Command, while Nna is the Commissioner of Police, Anti-Trafficking, Force Criminal Investigation Department. He also congratulated Deputy Inspector General, John Amadi, on his confirmation as a DIG, statutorily representing the South-East in the Police Management Team. Nnamani said these promotions and appointments should motivate youth from the South-Eastern region of the country to embrace a career in the NPF where they will have equal opportunities to rise to the top. Citing the incessant insecurity ravaging the region while also noting that statistics from the on-going police recruitment showed a glaring disinterest in the police by the youth of the zone, he said, “The South-East, under South-Eastern police officers, will obviously stamp out the raging and menacing banditry in the zone. “The NPF is a noble profession that should attract the best of the South-Eastern youth. I will continue my advocacy for Igbo youths to find favour in the NPF. I am very sure that the South-East will benefit tremendously from the services of indigenous police officers who know their people, culture and idiosyncrasies.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com