There is tension in the Ebute Metta area of Lagos State after rival cults clashed in a supremacy battle that has lasted for three days. PUNCH Metro learnt that the hoodlums looted shops and dispossessed residents of their valuables during the incident. It was gathered that the fight was between the Kogbagidi Boys and Willoughby Boys. The Kogbadigi Boys are led by one Tunde, aka Omo Aiye, while the Willoughby Boys are led by one Ase. The Head of the Vigilante Group of Nigeria, Lagos Mainland Local Government Area, Agbodemu Ishola, said the cult fight had been on for a long time. He said, “They have been on this issue of supremacy in Ebute Metta for a long time now and the Kogbagidi Boys and Freeman Boys are led by one man we know as Ase. They are fighting over territory and they are also being used by politicians. “They use guns at will among other weapons they use in robbing and killing each other. We have recorded four deaths since they started this fight on Thursday.” The deceased were identified as Lati Epon, Kokobiri, Lateef and Ajagun. A hairdresser, Rukayat Jimoh, 29, who also traded in phone accessories and other items on Jebba Street, said she was robbed of money and goods. She said, “They entered here where I run a hairdressing salon and asked us to lie down. They cocked their guns and shot into the air. “They collected four iPhones, my phone, phone accessories that I sell and they also collected money from my customers and slashed my apprentice’s head with a sharp cutlass because she was slow in dropping her phone.” A vigilante, Akogun Lateef, said, “In front of the plaza on Herbert Macaulay Road, these boys from Jebba and Freeman have been robbing people. Even church members are not spared as they close from church.” A resident on Cole Street, Layode Israel, told PUNCH Metro that Ebute Meta was becoming a haven for cultists. The Lagos State Police Public Relations Officer, Benjamin Hundeyin, said policemen and patrol vehicles had been deployed in the area. Asked the number of casualties, the PPRO said, “The police are still investigating the matter and when we have the facts, they will be made known to members of the public.” In recent times, cultism has assumed a new dimension as cult members use supremacy battles to unleash terror on members of the public. The Lagos State House of Assembly passed the Unlawful Societies and Cultism (Prohibition) Bill 2020 into law in order to curb cult activities in the state.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com