A coalition of 28 youths, women, farmers and persons with disabilities, on Saturday in Abuja, obtained copies of the presidential nomination and expression of interest forms of the All Progressives Congress for the President of the African Development Bank, Dr Akinwumi Adesina. The coalition, consisting of Youth Arise Movement, Nigerians in Diaspora, One Nigeria Group, Prudent Youth Association of Nigeria, women groups, farmers, PWDs and other civil society groups, raised the N100m fee to purchase the forms for the former agric minister. The payment acknowledgement slip spotted by our correspondent on Saturday carried Adesina’s name as the recipient of both forms, which are due for submission this week. Speaking shortly after obtaining the forms at the International Conference Centre, Abuja, the leader of the Youth Arise Movement, Ademola Babatunde, said “We are 28 groups precisely that came together after a very serious consultation, deliberations on the way forward for a better and united Nigeria unanimously decided that though the money is outrageous, if we truly want a better future for ourselves and our children and our land of birth and soil of origin,  we must put our resources together to obtain the forms for Dr Akinwumi Adesina.” Babatunde, who stormed the centre in company with  the One Nigeria Group leader, Mohammed Saleh, said their move was predicated on their desire not to hand over the country to mediocres next year. “If we fail to support a candidate of credible and worthy note, an icon of unblemished integrity as Dr Akinwumi Adesina to come on board and contest for the presidential race come 2023, we will eventually hand over this country to mediocres who will finally destroy our commonwealth. “This is one of the supports we are fundamentally and passionately determined to render for ourselves by putting Akinwumi Adesina forward to Nigerians,” he said. The YAM leader, who contested for the Presidency in 2019 on the platform of the Nigeria Community Movement Party, pledged that the coalition would “mobilise massively in the coming days” to reach out to all stakeholders and ensure wide-scale support for Adesina. Recall that the AfDB Chief visited the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), on April 26, 2022 and laid out the bank’s plan to hedge Africa’s food supply against the impact of the ongoing Russia-Ukraine conflict. However, it is uncertain if Adesina equally discussed his presidential ambition with Buhari at the short closed-door session they had at the State House, Abuja. In a similar development, the #ProjectNigeria Group led by Chidi Nwogu, on Saturday, submitted filled copies of the presidential expression of interest and nomination forms for Buhari’s Minister of State for Education, Chukwuemeka Nwajiuba. Nwogu noted that the minister was not deterred by the increasing number of aspirants in the presidential race. He said, “We are a group of Project Nigeria, we picked the form for the Honourable Minister of State for Education, Honorable chukwuemeka Nwajiuba, a presidential aspirant. We are the first to purchase the form and the first to return the form. Today, we returned the forms and this is the acknowledgement copy of the form.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com