One week after the Federal Government announced the second phase of the reopening of land borders, the Nigeria Customs Service has said that borders in the North-East and North-Central regions are yet to meet the reopening specifications. The National Public Relations Officer of the NCS, Timi Bomodi, in a telephone chat with our correspondent on Monday, said that until the borders were certified to be reopened, they would remain closed. He also added that reopening the borders was at the discretion of the presidency. “Whatever has been released as the approved route is what we will work on now. If they have not been certified for re-opening, they can’t be reopened now. There is no condition for the re-opening; it is at the discretion of the presidency. When they see that these ones that have been reopened are stabilised and trade is formalised along those corridors, then they will re-open others. But it is at the discretion of the presidency. We are not the ones that determine the borders that will be opened; we can only suggest and any time the presidency agrees, then they will re-open other ones.” The Federal Government had, last week, approved the reopening of Idiroko, Jibia, Kamba and Ikom land borders. This is coming three years after the government shut down land borders due to the incessant smuggling of arms and different contraband goods. In December 2020, the Federal Executive Council re-opened the country’s four major land borders, which were Seme, Ilella, Maigatari and Mfun. The newly re-opened borders bring the number to eight. Meanwhile, the Board of Trustees Chairman of West African Association for Cross-Border Trade,  Agro-Forestry-Pastoral, Fisheries Products and Food, Salami Nasiru, in a chat with our correspondent in Lagos on Sunday, said smuggling was a lucrative business for border communities. He blamed infrastructural decays at the border communities as the reason smuggling would not stop at the borders, adding that the government should have enlightened the people before closing and opening the borders. “First of all, when the government opened the borders, it would have enlightened the people. You don’t have to close the border when you want and open it when you want without enlightening the people. The government could have given an enlightenment programme to the people. The issue of insecurity along the border is also about injustice. What I mean by this is that those border communities do not have proper infrastructure, and there is no hospital,  no good water along the border corridors, so, smuggling is the job they do.” He also said that the government didn’t ensure that proper infrastructure was put in place before reopening the borders.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com