The Sokoto State Governor and former Speaker of the House of Representatives, Aminu Tambuwal has expressed his support for the restructuring of the country. Tambuwal, who is a presidential aspirant of the Peoples Democratic Party, noted that when he was the speaker of the House of Representatives, the House worked on the constitutional amendment but former President Goodluck Jonathan did not sign the bill into law before leaving the office. Tambuwal stated this while addressing the Ondo State delegates at the PDP secretariat in Akure, ahead of the forthcoming presidential primaries of the party. Describing himself as someone who understood Nigeria very well, Tambuwal said he understood the issue of restructuring. He added that he had the method to oust the ruling All Progressives Congress in the 2023 presidential election. He said, ” I have shown good governance in Sokoto State in the last seven years. I will also do the same if elected as the president of this country. I am a pan-Nigeria, who can deliver victory for our party. I know your politics in Ondo State, you play politics of integrity. Don’t be compromised. “I understand the debate about restructuring, I understand the debate on devolution of power and I understand fiscal federalism. When I was the Speaker of the House of Representatives, we attempted it but unfortunately, former President Goodluck Jonathan did not sign that constitutional Amendment Bill that could have possibly addressed some of these challenges being raised in terms of restructuring, devolution of power among others. “I am the candidate to crush the APC. So let’s work together to win the election, we shall return the good old days of Nigeria, we shall return to the commodity board. “As delegates of conscience, vote Tambuwal. I understand this country, I’m well connected across Nigeria. Let us vote for a president that would be fair to all sections of this country. If elected as the president, we will empower our youths and women.” In his remarks, the Ondo state PDP chairman, Fatai Adams, said Tambuwal had the integrity and capability to rule the country. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com