The value of the manufactured goods trade deficit was N2.6tn in the fourth quarter of 2021, according to data from the National Bureau of Statistics. In its ‘Foreign Trade in Goods Statistics’ for Q4 2021, the NBS disclosed that the total manufacturing import was about N3tn, while export was N395.48bn in Q4 2021. A trade deficit occurs when a country’s imports exceed its exports in a particular period. The analysis shows that Nigeria’s imports of manufactured goods exceeded the exports of such goods in Q4 2021. In October 2021, the country’s import was N904.52bn while export was N184.55bn. By November 2021, the import was N1.03tn while export was N181.12bn. At the end of Q4 2021 in December, the import was N1.06tn while export was N29.81bn. Generally, the NBS report revealed that the value of imported manufactured goods increased by 15.11 per cent while the value of exported manufactured goods dropped by 38.77 per cent. The report read in part, “The value of imported manufactured goods grew by 15.11 per cent in Q4, 2021 against the value recorded in Q3, 2021 and it also increased by 49.46 per cent compared to the value recorded in Q4, 2020.” It added, “The value of manufactured goods exports fell by 38.77 per cent in Q4 2021 when compared to the value recorded in Q3 2021. It also increased by 206.46 per cent compared to the value recorded in Q4, 2020.” The NBS report further disclosed that the total value of manufactured goods traded in Q4 2021 was N3.4tn, which was 29.01 per cent of total trade for that quarter. The report also noted that the major export goods in this quarter were floating or submersible drilling platforms exported to Namibia and Cameroon valued at N264.54bn and N0.79bn respectively. In addition, unwrought aluminium alloys valued at N8.21bn and N8.16bn were exported to Japan and China respectively, and cigarettes containing tobacco were exported to Niger and Nauru valued at N4.29bn and N2.61bn respectively. By region, manufactured goods were exported to Africa, Asia and Europe, valued at N302.04bn, N49.71bn and N31.57bn respectively. For imports in Q4 2021, rolled iron/steel was imported from China worth N88.23bn. There was also the importation of used vehicles from the United States, Italy and Canada valued at N70.48bn, N3.59bn and N2.05bn respectively. In addition, machines for the reception, conversion and transmission or regeneration of voice and images were imported from China (N59.19bn) and Sweden (N2.55bn). Other goods imported were motorcycles from India valued at N39.92bn and some appliances and machines from China valued at N54.61bn. The Chairman, Board of Directors, Manufacturers Power Development Company, a member of the Manufacturers Association of Nigeria, Ibrahim Usman, said there were a number of issues affecting the export of manufactured goods from Nigeria. According to him, the Nigerian government has not fully supported manufacturers in the area of custom duty, foreign exchange, and manufacturing processes. He said, “It is a mixture of several things. All of them are important. First and foremost, the Nigerian government through the Central Bank and the Minister of Finance is not serious about supporting the manufacturers. Competitiveness in the international market depends to a great extent on the support given to local manufacturers of any country by their government – the issue of custom duty, ease of getting the foreign exchange, issue of facilitating the manufacturing processes (for example having power).” He further stressed the need for the government to support local manufacturers so that they will be in a good position to seamlessly manufacture and export their goods. The Secretary, MAN Export Promotion Group, Benedict Obhiosa, identified some of the challenges as the gridlock in Apapa, port congestion, high shipping costs, and logistics costs. He said, “The export issues are obvious. For example, the Apapa gridlock is an issue for exporters. Port congestion is another issue. The high cost of fleet by shipping agencies is another issue. This has even quadrupled from what it used to be. Then, domestic charges of logistics from your factory to Apapa are another huge challenge for manufacturers.” Obhiosa added that manufacturers were struggling  with the lack of adequate foreign exchange to purchase raw materials and poor power supply, which they said, hampered the productivity of these companies. “The scarcity of dollars for manufacturers to buy their requisite raw materials is another challenge. There is also the cost of energy, with the increase in the cost of diesel. This is posing a serious challenge to the manufacturers,” Obhiosa said, He further said that many exporters are unable to repatriate their proceeds from the export due to a policy by the Central Bank of Nigeria. “Another one is the CBN’s policy of repatriation of proceeds. Exporters do not have 100 per cent repatriation of their proceeds.” The former Director-General of the Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Dr Muda Yusuf, had last year urged the Central Bank of Nigeria to review its policy on repatriation of export proceeds. In the wake of forex shortage in the nation, the CBN required exporters to repatriate export proceeds within 90 days for oil and gas and 180 days for non-oil exports. The inability to do so is seen as a breach of the extant regulation. This has not gone down well with many economists and manufacturers, particularly the rate at which exporters exchange their proceeds. In its, ‘Nigeria Selected Issues,’ report released in February 2022, the International Monetary Fund disclosed that Nigeria’s high economic dependence on oil was impeding its ability to develop its manufacturing sector. It added that some components of what Nigeria exports as manufactured trade items could be classified as imports since they were once imported into the nation for use. It said, “In turn, high economic dependence on oil impedes diversification through overshadowing, among others, the competitiveness of other tradable sectors, particularly manufacturing.” The PUNCH had reported how lingering forex and power sector crises had contributed to the shutdown of over 50 Nigerian manufacturing companies in the last five years. The development came eight months after the Central Bank of Nigeria stopped the sale of forex to Bureau de Change operators and promised to boost liquidity in commercial banks. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com