The Edo State Governor, Godwin Obaseki, has said the state’s chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party will obey any decision reached by the party at the national level ahead of the presidential primary election as long as the decision is fair and just. Obaseki said this when he received the PDP presidential aspirant and Governor of Bauchi State, Bala Mohammed, who visited him at the Government House, Benin City, to seek his support, and that of the party delegates ahead of the primary elections. He said, “I believe that you know what the issues are in Nigeria today, and have practically touched all of them. You are sensitive; and you have that displayed sensitivity always, even when we go through contentious issues in our meetings. “I can confirm that you are a patriot and a democrat; I like your spirit, which is why democracy is about contestation. There is nothing wrong when you throw your hat in the ring, and you’ve been quite clear. There may be other aspirants who may possess such attributes. “You feel that you have what it takes to run this country and deal with all the critical issues affecting us today. What I want to assure you is that for us in Edo, we’re PDP and we want our party to produce the next president. “Whatever tour party agrees to do, as long as it’s fair and just, we, in Edo, will support it. You’ve come to seek the support of our delegates. They also have the privilege to hear from you and know the decision to take when the time comes,” Obaseki noted. Earlier, Mohammed said his wealth of experience and track record over the years would enable him to deliver good governance to Nigerians if elected president. He said, “I have a track record of being a nationalist, a federalist, a civil servant, and a reporter like these young people. I know the country very well and the people of the country know me. I have been tested as a civil servant, a legislator in Abuja and Bauchi, using small resources to do more as you are doing a similar thing here in Edo.” Mohammed noted that his reign as the president would foster oneness among Nigerians and further deepen leadership. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com