An Ondo Central senatorial aspirant, Tola Awosika, has promised employment and healthcare, as he stated that these were some of the problems that needed to be fixed in the district. The chieftain of the All Progressives Congress has declared that there was a need for people of the Ondo Central Senatorial District to have a good representation in the National Assembly for many of the problems facing the area to be resolved. Awosika said there were many problems to be fixed in the district and only good and people-loving representatives would be able to lobby to address the problems. He stated this while speaking with journalists in Akure , the state capital, while discussing his preparation for the forthcoming primaries of the party. Expressing confidence that he would emerge the candidate of the party for the senatorial election, Awosika said he joined politics to impact positively on his people and had carried out many life-impactful projects to better the lives of many youths in the district before joining politics. He said , “For me, that is the driving force for getting involved in mainstream politics. I believe the indigenes of Ondo State will be willing to accept their sons and daughters in the interest of a better society. “We need to ensure that our people are empowered with jobs, skills, good infrastructures, education and healthcare. We have toured the senatorial districts and we have identified and seen a lot of things to be, fixed and done in different ways. “We will create businesses, institutions, sectors that would make the youth more responsible and productive for the society.” The businessman-turned politician noted that Ondo State was well- positioned in the South-West being the only oil-producing state in the South-West, adding that the state is blessed with natural resources, hence the need to harness untapped sectors in order to convert economic prosperity for the people. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com