The Nasarawa State Police Command says it has arrested Mr. Bako Anjeh, a 36-year-old man, for sexually abusing a 17-year-old girl to death in the Eggon-Nassarawa Local Government Area of the state. It was alleged that in a bid to make her weak, the suspect forced the victim to drink gramoxone, a chemical used for killing grasses, before proceeding to have carnal knowledge of her. The Police Public Relations Officer of the command, ASP Ramhan Nansel, made the disclosure while speaking to our correspondent in Lafia on Sunday. He explained that officers of the Nasarawa police command tracked down the suspect and arrested him after a complaint was lodged at the Akwanga Area Command by the victim’s father, Mr. Dimka Sarki, that his daughter was lured and defiled by the suspect who hails from Angam village, Akun Development Area of Nasarawa-Eggon LGA. He said, “A complaint was lodged at Akwanga Area Command by one Dimka Sarki, that his daughter was lured by one Bako Anjeh to his room and he tried to have unlawful carnal knowledge of her. The suspect hails from Angam village in Akun Development Area of Nasarawa-Eggon Local Government Area. “When she refused, he forcefully gave her gramoxone, a chemical substance used in killing grasses to drink which made her weak then, he proceeded and had carnal knowledge of her. “Upon receipt of the complaint, the policemen attached to Akwanga Area Command swiftly moved to the scene and got the suspect arrested. “The victim was taken to Ola hospital in Akwanga LGA for medical treatment where her statements were taken before she later died at the same hospital and the corpse was deposited there for post mortem examination.” The PPRO said the Commissioner of Police, CP Adesina Soyemi, had directed that the suspect be charged to court for prosecution upon conclusion of investigations at the State Criminal Investigation Department in Lafia. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com