The Ekiti State Governor and Chairman of the Nigeria Governors’ Forum, Dr Kayode Fayemi, Wednesday in Abuja said it is not the job of the Federal Government to address unemployment. He noted that the government can only create the enabling environment for job creation to thrive. Fayemi was speaking during a Question and Answer session shortly after his official declaration to contest for the presidential ticket of the governing party, All Progressives Congress, at the Congress Hall of Transcorp Hilton, Abuja on Wednesday. The session was moderated by ace broadcaster, Cyril Stober. He said, “It is not the job of the government to address unemployment, it is our job to create the enabling environment to allow employment to happen. “We will create an enabling environment for businesses to thrive and then these businesses will create jobs in the process.” The Ekiti State Governor and Chairman of the Nigeria Governors’ Forum, Dr Kayode Fayemi, also said that he does not have a challenge with the mode of primaries APC adopts in its forthcoming presidential primary election which will be held from May 30 to June 1, 2022. According to him, he will embrace any route that gives Nigerians a voice to decide their future. He said, “Let me begin with our constitution. The constitution of our party identifies three ways to conduct our primaries. Now we have an electoral act that says to have consensus, all parties must sign up. “I think for me, whatever route we take must also capture the voice of our people. Both inside and outside of our party, people should have a say in the party affairs. “I have no problems with direct or indirect primaries. Whatever gives us the opportunity to engage Nigerians in a way that best suits them and gives party members the freedom to decide the future of our country.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com