A wanted drug baroness, Bridget Emeka, a.k.a Mama, 59, has been arrested by operatives of the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency in Delta State. She was arrested on Sunday at her mansion where she allegedly cooked and distributed crack cocaine, methamphetamine and other illicit substances. The NDLEA said no fewer than nine of her workers and associates were also arrested in coordinated simultaneous operations at her residence and drug bunks, where she allegedly accommodated drug users and sold illicit substances to them and others in parts of Warri, Delta State. A statement on Tuesday by the NDLEA Director of Media and Advocacy, Femi Babafemi, said apart from various quantities of crack cocaine, methamphetamine, molly, and loud seized from her home and drug bunks, a pump-action gun, 15 cartridges, documents, two cars, mobile phones, drug paraphernalia such as sodium bicarbonate and polythene wrappings were also recovered for further investigation. Babafemi said, “While five of her staff that cook, cut, package and distribute the drugs were found in her house located on Favour Street, Otukutu, Effurun Warri, four of her associates were equally arrested at her drug bunks in other parts of the town during the raids by Strike Force officers of the NDLEA supported by the military. “The drug baroness has been under surveillance for weeks after her identification as a major distributor of illicit drugs in the South-South state. Bridget cooks cocaine into crack cocaine for local distribution and consumption in drug joints. “Some of the paraphernalia for making crack recovered from her house included sodium bicarbonate, which is the main adulterant and recipe for making crack cocaine, as well as transparent nylon used in wrapping the finished product.” The Chairman and Chief Executive of the NDLEA, Brig. Gen. Mohammed Marwa (retd.), commended the officers and men involved in all the processes leading to the eventual execution of the operation.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com