The National Judicial Council has recommended the appointment of 46 judicial officers as part of the efforts to beef up the judiciary in preparation for the 2023 election litigations. The successful candidates were presented for NJC’s consideration by its interview committee during its 98th meeting in Abuja. The NJC, in a statement issued by its Director of Information, Soji Oye, on Thursday indicated that the successful applicants are recommended for appointment as heads of court and other judicial officers for federal and state judiciaries in Nigeria. The recommended heads of court are Justice Chukwuemeka-Chikeka  Eberechukwu as Chief Judge for Imo State, Kadi Agwai II as Grand Kadi, Sharia Court of Appeal, Nasarawa State, and Justice Okorie Uchenna as President, Customary Court of Appeal for Imo State. Three judges were recommended for Benue State, they are Felicia Ikyegh, Omale Anebi and Shishi Mkoholga. Jigawa has two; they are Auwal Ya’u and Mustapha Adamu. Delta State has three which are Diai Dumebi, Odebale  Baro and Gesikeme-Akebofah  Mary. Four candidates, Ladi Madaki, Longden Jacob, Elizabeth Angai and Samchi Simon were recommended for Plateau State  while and Hassan Kuwwa, Shamsudeen Jaafar and Maryam Kaoje were recommended for Kebbi State. The four candidates recommended as judges for Adamawa State are Ishaku Haliru, Felix Nzarga, Abbas Hoban and Maxwell Pukuma. Similarly, the three recommended for Kogi State were Clement Kekere, Hawa Yusufu and Isa Abdullahi, while the six for Imo State are Okereke Ngozi,  Onyekachi Chibueze, Antoinette Onyeukwu, Innocent Ibeawuchi, Alinnor Leo and Nwachukwu Emmanuel. The Kadi recommended for the Sharia Court of Appeal in Plateau is Yahaya Kanam, while that of Kebbi is Nasiru  Zaggan. The two for Adamawa State are Magaji Chiroma and Ibrahim Barkindo. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com