Nurses and midwives in Anambra State have decried their poor remuneration and welfare condition. They called on the state governor, Prof Chukwuma Soludo, to intervene. The group said the situation had led to the shortage of members in general hospitals and primary healthcare centres, a situation that is negatively affecting health care delivery in the state. The group made this known in a statement on Wednesday signed by the Chairman, National Association of Nigeria Nurses and Midwives, Anambra State Council, Onwuka Edith.The message titled, “Nurses: A voice to lead, invest in nursing and respect the right to global health” is a campaign to mark the International Nurses Week. The group appealed to the state government to invest in nursing to ensure quality health care delivery to create a liveable homeland for the state a reality. It also called for the review of the Consolidated Health Salary Structure, which it noted, had suffered poor implementation in the state. The statement read in part, “Nurses and midwives, being promoters of health, show appreciation with your move-in cleaning of Okpoko which had always been epicentre for disease outbreak due to environmental insults and degradation. “We have also seen your commitment to cleaning up the rest of the cities, which we commend especially as it will reduce disease outbreaks like cholera, diarrhoea, measles, etc. “We wish to appeal to the governor to look into the issues affecting nurses, especially now that you are taking stock of challenges in different ministries, MDAs, and parastatals. “Poor remuneration of nurses and midwives has led to a mass migration of highly qualified nurses to either federal health institutions or outside the country in search of greener pastures. “This has adversely affected healthcare delivery as the small number of nurses that remain are overwhelmed by work in our hospitals. “It is important to review the Consolidated Health Salary Structure, which has not been properly implemented in the state; the said CONHESS 60% is on paper but not properly and fully reflected in the implementation. “We humbly request for the full implementation of 60% CONHESS and upward review to 100% CONHESS for nurses in the state and local government. “Shortage of nurses and midwives in both general hospitals and primary health care centres; this gross shortage affects the health care delivery with attendant negative consequences. “Implementation of new hazard allowance (N32,000) per nurse which was recently reviewed due to the COVID-19 pandemic.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com