The Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry and the Risk Management Association of Nigeria have called for better risk management practices in organisations and, particularly, SMEs to enable them survive the challenging economic situation and harsh business environment. A statement said the organisations stated during a courtesy visit by RIMAN to LCCI. The Executive Secretary, RIMAN, Mr Victor Olannye, lauded LCCI as the first chamber of commerce in Nigeria for its significant role in the economic growth of Lagos State and Nigeria, promotion of sound business ethics, and delivery of best-in-class services among its members. LCCI was extolled for doing well in providing excellent services in the promotion and protection of trade and industry in the best interest of the business community. He commended LCCI for its numerous contributions in tackling some key topical issues in the country such as urging the Federal Government to consider the economics of refurbishing and maintaining existing refineries after the importation of contaminated fuel into the country. Olannye also urged the government to offer businesses a great networking platform which had enhanced sustainable growth and helping improve business visibility by pathways to more business opportunities. It also urged the Federal Government to deploy the instrument of diplomacy in reaching out to well-meaning world powers towards a speedy resolution on the Russia-Ukraine crisis. The Director-General, LCCI, Dr Chinyere Almona, said RIMAN and LCCI shared similar structures and benefits for members. She stated that though RIMAN was younger in existence than LCCI, the impact of RIMAN could not be overlooked, especially as newer institutions were increasingly agile, in tune with the local and global trends, and therefore with the capability to guide its members to respond appropriately to any shocks or volatilities. The director-general said, “As long as we are working towards developing the economy, there’s no reason not to partner together, to get a wider range, a louder voice and wider impacts. Advocacy is important to let the government know how things are working, to speak with one voice about the challenge with risk management and how to manage it.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com