The leadership of the Christian Association of Nigeria has condemned the abduction of the Prelate of the Methodist Church Nigeria, Samuel Uche and two others. In a statement on Monday, CAN also called on the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), to give an order to the security agencies to “free them immediately and stop the incessant abduction of clerics and other innocent Nigerians forthwith”. Uche was abducted on Sunday in Umunneochi Local Government Area of Abia State along with the Methodist Bishop of Owerri and the Prelate’s Chaplain, Rt. Rev. Dennis Mark, by gunmen. The statement titled, ‘CAN asks Buhari to order immediate rescue of Methodist Prelate, two others’ was signed by Pastor Adebayo Oladeji, the Special Assistant, Media and Communications, to the President of CAN, Rev. Dr Samson Ayokunle. The statement read in part, “If a great Servant of God of Uche’s calibre could be kidnapped like a three-year-old baby on a major road without any resistance from the police, it speaks volumes of what our security architecture has become. “No fewer than 10 clerics have been kidnapped this year alone and none was rescued by the security agencies. In two instances, the victims were killed by their captors, unfortunately! “This is no more a country one can be proud of. No reasonable government can continue to leave the citizens in a terrible state of insecurity as we are at present. This situation is not good for our nation at all. “We, once again, call on President Muhammadu Buhari to do all within his powers to get these servants of God released very soon and unhurt. “This administration must redeem its image of widespread insecurity by bringing sanity to this situation before leaving office. “To those who are holding these Servants of God, we appeal to them to let go of them because they are not responsible for whatever reasons that made them criminals. We call on Christians and other well-meaning Nigerians to join us in praying for their release immediately.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com