Youths under the aegis of the Coalition of Youths from the Lafia/Obi Federal Constituency in Nasarawa State have advocated more women participation in politics for gender balance in governance and more dividends of democracy. The Chairman of the group, Yarwa Ahmad, made the call in Lafia on Friday during a press conference and endorsement of a 36-year-old female aspirant, Hauwa Ibrahim, who recently joined the race to represent the constituency in the House of Representatives under the platform of the All Progressives Congress. Ahmed noted that since 1999, the constituency had not had a female representative in the National Assembly, which was why the youth were supporting Ibrahim to emerge victorious given her experience and antecedents in the public and private sectors. He said, “Over the years, we have lacked women participation in politics. We know that women are good managers as we can see in our homes, and if they are given the opportunity to serve, Nasarawa State and indeed the entire country will be a better place for all of us. “Women participation in politics will also create a gender balance in governance, because we are aware that men have taken over the politics of Nasarawa State. The state House of Assembly is completely occupied by men. Even the State Executive Council is also occupied by men, except for a few women. “This is why we the youth of the Lafia/Obi Federal Constituency have gathered to show our support to Hauwa Nana Ibrahim for her ambition to represent us in the House of Representatives in 2023. “Hauwa has done so much for our people through her several empowerment programmes that have lifted so many of her constituents from the shackles of poverty. She has great love for us and it is our duty to stand by her to ensure that she emerges victorious in the forthcoming election. “So, we are appealing to the delegates, who will be voting during the primary election of the All Progressives Congress, to give her a chance to ensure the steady growth and development of our constituency.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com