Suspected terrorists have killed seven people in some communities in the Gusau Local Government Area in Zamfara State. A resident in the area, Malam Ibrahim Sani, said the terrorists who attacked the communities in large numbers and carted away animals and food items, invaded Kwan-doka, Gidan kada and Kaura-dawa communities searching for valuable items to steal. According to Sani, the terrorists searched house to house as they rustled domestic animals, including camels, He explained that the seven people who lost their lives were killed while attempting to stop the terrorists from gaining access to their respective villages. Sani added, “The victims wanted to stop the bandits from gaining access to their villages when they (terrorists) opened fire and killed them. They killed two people in Kwan-doka village, three in Gidan kada village and two in Kaura-dawa village. “They have been stealing our animals, abducting and killing our people and we have reported the issue to the relevant authorities several times but nothing has been done yet. Many of our people have since relocated to other places because of the persistent attacks by the terrorists. “I have been trying to leave my village also but I don’t know where to go because I have three wives and 15 children. I am calling on the state and federal governments to please come to our aid,” Sani said. The spokesperson for the state police command, SP Mohammed Shehu, could not be reached on phone. Meanwhile, about five persons were reportedly killed by suspected herders on Friday in the Guma local government area of Benue State. The incident, according to locals spoke on condition of anonymity, said the incident happened at about 1pm on Friday. One of them said, “The ulani herders invaded Tse Alashi, Kaambe community in Guma at about 1pm today (Friday). They killed four people who were on their farm and also moved to an area where some people were moulding burnt bricks and killed two people.’’ The Chairman of the council, Caleb Aba, while confirming the report, said, “Some Fulani herders invaded a community called Tse Alashi and killed three people who were working on their farm. They also moved to a place where people were laying burnt bricks and killed two people.” The Security Adviser to the state governor, Lt. Col. Paul Hemba (retd) described the incident as an unprovoked attack. The state police spokesperson, Catherine Anene, confirmed the attack, adding that she had yet to receive a report of the killing. “We have information on the attack but I have not heard of any killing until the team drafted to the place arrives”, Anene added.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com