Governor of Ekiti State, Dr. Kayode Fayemi, says the race for the office of the President of Nigeria is not a ‘do or die’, adding that it is about development. Fayemi, who is also the chairman of Nigeria Governors’ Forum, said he has the magic wand to develop the country. He made this disclosure on Wednesday during a consultative meeting with delegates of All Progressives Congress in Gombe State. Fayemi revealed that the contest should be of ideas, urging Gombe delegates to opt for his which would be of most benefit to them. Fayemi said, “I have to request, to plead and to justify my candidacy to the leaders of our party here. I hope having listened to me, having considered my experience, capacity, competence, and my knowledge for the terrain, will positively respond to my prayers. “This contest is nothing but about competing visions. We all should present our visions to the people. The vision should be scrutinised and then conclusions should be reached by members of the party.” Speaking on his commitment to the party after the primary, in case the result is not favourable, Fayemi added, “I’m a foundation member of this party. There is nothing, including if I’m not the choice of the party, that will make me subvert the overall interest of our party in presenting the country with a successor to President Muhammadu Buhari. “So, for me it is not even a contest, it is a competition. I hope my vision will be the successful vision that our party members rally round. It is not a ‘do or die’ but about progress and development for our people. Also speaking, Governor of Gombe State, Mohammed Yahaya, who had earlier welcomed the Vice President of Nigeria Prof. Yemi Osinbajo, and a National leader of the APC, Bola Tinubu, to the state said that Fayemi is qualified. He enumerated the various positions that the governor had occupied which include his position as former minister. Yahaya said, “You are eminently qualified to be president of the federal republic of Nigeria and for so many reasons. The people in this room have reasons and ground to stand by you and to make sure you are delivered.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com