Nigeria’s consumer goods imports have continued to rise amid the nation’s worsening foreign exchange crisis, SAMI OLATUNJI reports Nigeria spent N1.22tn on consumer goods imports in 2021, according to the Foreign Trade Statistics of the National Bureau of Statistics. This was a 109.25 per cent increase from the N584.41bn spent on importing consumer goods in 2018. The consumer goods imported into the country are categorised into durable, semi-durable and non-durable. In 2018, Nigeria spent N148.52bn, N88.83bn and N347.06bn on imported durable, semi-durable and non-durable consumer goods respectively. In 2021, Nigeria spent N269.78bn, N144.42bn and N808.69bn on imported durable, semi-durable and non-durable consumer goods respectively. The data shows that Nigeria spends more on importing non-durable consumer goods. The Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Boss Mustapha, last year during an exhibition of made-in-Nigeria products in Abuja, said the intervention of the Federal Government in developing local industries had resulted in the growth of local businesses. As a result of this, he said Nigerians proudly use products branded made-in-Nigeria, adding that this would impact the nation’s Gross Domestic Product, generation of employment opportunities and reduction in the cost of production. He said, “The intervention of the Federal Government of Nigeria in developing local industries has resulted in a boom in the growth of local businesses. Local production of hitherto imported products is beginning to gain grounds that I make bold to say that the materials produced locally can compete favourably with the imported ones. “Nigerians now proudly use products branded made-in-Nigeria. This development will no doubt attract several benefits to the country including increase in its Gross Domestic Product, generation of employment opportunities and reduction in the cost of production.” Adebayo noted that the patronage of locally made products would create more jobs, reduce poverty and also boost the development of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprise across the country. The Minister for Industry, Trade, and Investment, Adeniyi Adebayo, in November last year, urged Nigerians to patronise made-in-Nigeria goods, adding that the Federal Government had implemented several policies and programmes through the ministry to reposition MSMEs as the engine room for wealth creation, economic transformation and development in the country. The Anambra State Director, National Orientation Agency, Charles Nwoji, in April this year called on Nigerians to drop their preference for foreign goods and patronise made-in-Nigeria products. He described the patronage of locally made products against their foreign substitutes as a strategic means to encourage local industries and also grow the nation’s economy. According to him, the economy of any nation grows rapidly when locally made products and services are promoted and patronised by the citizens. He said, “A nation needs to first patronise its own products to grow its economy if the people are sure and proud of their products and services.” However, Nigerians’ appetite for foreign goods is on the rise, as indicated by the NBS report. According to a financial report released in March this year, Nigeria’s rapidly growing appetite for imported goods, among other things, creates a large demand for the United States dollar while supply remains poor. This factor contributes to the continuous deprecation of the naira against the dollar, the report noted. Speaking recently on the development, a renowned economist and a former presidential candidate, Pat Utomi, explained that the country had a huge appetite for imports because of insufficient domestic production driven by worsening insecurity and stringent government regulations. He said while there were many interventions being introduced by the government and the CBN to reduce imports and shore up exports, most of the initiatives were fraught with inconsistencies and corrupt practices which prevent real impact. He said, “You will notice that Nigeria’s top imports which are food products and motor spirits are things that we should be exporting because we are a food-producing nation and we have oil in abundance. This is scandalous. “But the reason this is so is simple; firstly, access to farms is problematic. I am in the agriculture value chain business and farmers say to us ‘we can’t supply to you, because we are afraid to go to our farms.’ So the insecurity contributes significantly to poor farm output. Beyond insecurity, government regulations and policies also hinder production in various sectors.” He added that the Nigerian environment made production difficult and the little money that came from oil was used to import goods for consumption. Earlier in May 2022, the National Association of Small-Scale Industrialists called for the ban on imported consumer goods. They also said that with escalating levels of poverty in the country, high import tariff should be imposed on luxury goods, thereby concentrating resources towards fighting poverty and building of infrastructure. The Chairperson of its Lagos branch, Mrs. Gertrude Akhimien, during the 6th NASSI/ MSME Trade Fair said government patronage of Made-in-Nigeria products at all levels should be enforced. In January this year, the Igbo socio-cultural group, Ohanaeze Ndigbo, called on the Federal Government and various state governments to show commitment to patronising locally made products if they want the economic fortunes of the country to improve. The group also emphasised that patronising locally manufactured products would encourage local manufacturers and help Nigeria to achieve security in various sectors as well as boost the country’s economy. The Secretary, MAN Export Promotion Group, Benedict Obhiosa, said that manufacturers were struggling to boost productivity in the country amid a number of challenges. According to him, manufacturers face the challenge of lack of adequate foreign exchange to purchase raw materials and poor power supply, which hamper the productivity of these companies. “The scarcity of dollars for manufacturers to buy their requisite raw materials is another challenge. There is also the cost of energy, with the increase in the cost of diesel. This is posing a serious challenge to the manufacturers,” Obhiosa said. In its ‘Nigeria Selected Issues’ report released in February 2022, the International Monetary Fund disclosed that Nigeria’s high economic dependence on oil was impeding its ability to develop its manufacturing sector. It said, “In turn, high economic dependence on oil impedes diversification through overshadowing, among others, the competitiveness of other tradable sectors, particularly manufacturing.” According to a recent PUNCH report, the lingering foreign exchange and power sector crises have contributed to the shutdown of over 50 Nigerian manufacturing companies in the last five years. It was reported that the development might lead to massive job loss in the manufacturing industry, among other sectors, MAN reported.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com