Despite Watford’s relegation to the Championship, Emmanuel Dennis may continue plying his trade in the English Premier League after title chasers West Ham declared interest in the striker ahead of next season. According to The Mirror, Hammers manager, David Moyes, is keen to strengthen his striking options in the summer transfer window, with a move for Dennis on the cards. The British tabloid added that West Ham were ready to pay £20m for the striker, with a negotiation date already fixed. On a personal level, Dennis, 24, had a fantastic season with the Hornets, scoring 10 goals and assisting six more from 33 Premier League appearances. His impressive displays caught the eye of the London club, who are ready to open negotiations with the relegated Watford. “The Europa League semi-finalists are keen to provide big backing for boss David Moyes this summer to build on two impressive full seasons under the Scot,” the website wrote. “Dennis, 24, scored 10 goals for the Hornets this season and remains highly-rated by a number of bigger clubs. West Ham fancy their chances with Watford relegated and Dennis keen to stay in English football.” Having only spent one season at Vicarage Road, with four years left on his contract, Dennis’ desire to remain in the topflight league means he will quit Watford at the end of the season. Watford will be willing to listen to the offer, considering they signed the Nigerian for just £3m from Belgian side Club Brugge last summer. Newcastle are also keen on signing Dennis but the Hammers are able to offer European football with the club in the Europa Conference League as things stand. They could, however, be back in the Europa League should they win at Brighton on Sunday and Manchester United lose at Crystal Palace.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com