…Warns against future occurrences The Nigeria Civil Society Situation Room in a statement jointly signed by its Convener, Ene Obi, and co-conveners, Asmau Joda and James Ugochukwu, on Monday, criticised the decision of the Independent National Electoral Commission to extend the deadline of primaries for political parties. The group also warned the electoral commission to avoid future occurrences. The PUNCH had earlier reported that INEC had, on Friday, May 28, 2022, announced an extension of deadline for party primaries after immense pressure. Following the extension, the ruling All Progressives Congress announced the postponement of its presidential primary. “Situation Room is disappointed that INEC backtracked on its insistence of not extending the deadline for political parties to conclude their primaries and submit lists of candidates for the 2023 general election. “INEC’s insistence on its earlier timetable compelled some of the parties to proceed with the given dates, despite flaws in their process. Turning around and extending the date meant that political parties that were lagging behind their preparations for the parties were now gifted with the advantage of better preparation that the earlier given date denied the other political parties. “INEC should be seen to give level playing grounds for all parties involved in any election. Situation Room is concerned that INEC’s action in shifting deadlines and schedules for the election may be interpreted as a show of bias – a perception that does not help in building a reputation of an impartial umpire ahead of the 2023 general election. “Situation Room calls on INEC to refrain from any future action that may intensify perceptions of bias or unfairness, as we head to the general election in 2023,” the group said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com