The Lagos State Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, has imposed a fresh ban on operations of commercial motorcycles popularly called Okada, in six Local Governments and nine Local Government Development Areas. The governor gave out the directive at a meeting with the Commissioner of Police, Area Commanders and Divisional Police Officers at the State House in Alausa on Wednesday. Effective from June 1, 2022, the governor directed security operatives to enforce the proscription order across the listed councils. The fresh Okada ban followed the February 2020 restriction placed on the activities of commercial motorcycles. Sanwo-Olu said the government took the decision in line with the State’s Transport Sector Reform Law of 2018 to immediately address the chaos and menace created by the operations of Okada in the listed areas. The affected councils are Eti-Osa, Ikeja, Surulere, Lagos Island, Lagos Mainland, and Apapa. Full list of affected local governments and local council development areas Apapa
Apapa Iganmu  LCDA Ikeja
Ojodu LCDA
Onigbongbo LCDA Lagos Island
Lagos Island West LCDA
Lagos Island East LCDA Lagos Mainland
Yaba LCDA Surulere
Coker Aguda LCDA
Itire-Ikate LCDA Eti-Osa
Eti-Osa East LCDA
Eti-Osa West LCDA
Iru Victoria Island LCDA
Ikoyi-Obalende LCDA Sanw0-Olu said the total ban order extends to all LCDAs under the listed councils. The governor advised residents patronising Okada riders on highways to embrace the alternative transport schemes already provided by the government to plan their journey. He said the government had provided Last Mile Buses, medium-capacity and high-capacity buses in the affected areas for the convenience of commuters. The Governor insisted that Okada riding on the highways remained unsafe and would no longer be tolerated. He said the State Government had been ramping up construction work on its two rail line projects to further increase the choices of commuting for residents. He said: “We have provided Last Mile buses in the affected areas; they are working and effective. We also have medium-capacity buses and high-capacity buses working in these areas. Before the end of the year, we are also bringing the rail along these corridors with their terminals. We have provided jetties as well to provide alternatives. “We will not sit back and watch criminally-minded people use that mode of transportation (motorcycles) to perpetrate crimes and criminality in Lagos. Lives are being lost on a daily basis, preventable accidents are happening every day and the riders are not respecting any of our traffic laws. The situation has led to a complete breakdown of law and order. This ban has come to stay and we will not tolerate any weakness in enforcement.” Commissioner of Police, Abiodun Alabi, directed his men to ensure complete enforcement of the Governor’s order in the listed councils and areas. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com