The Rivers State Police Command has said three vehicles that were reportedly hijacked by gunmen along the Emuoha axis of the East-West Road in Rivers State have been recovered. The state Commissioner of Police, Friday Eboka, disclosed this to our correspondent on telephone on Thursday. Eboka was reacting to an alleged kidnap of some occupants of the vehicles travelling to Port Harcourt on Wednesday night. This came few days after three kidnapped passengers along the Kalabari-Emuoha Road in the state regained their freedom. On the latest incident, it was learnt that the gunmen diverted the passengers to a nearby forest in the area at about 8pm on Wednesday, following an ambush in Evekwu-Rumuodogo communities in Emuoha. A member of local vigilante group in the area had said affected vehicles included a bus, a Sienna car and another car. But Eboka said they were all  private cars, adding that the criminals abandoned the vehicles and fled. “It is not actually an hijack. The three vehicles are presently at the Rumuji police station.” “One of the drivers escaped. He was even the one that informed us about the incident. “The cars were abandoned and they were all private cars, no bus was involved. No arrest yet, but we are still working on the information we have,” Eboka stated. There has been frequent cases of bus hijack and abduction of travelers along the Emuoha axis in Rivers State recently. Recently, commercial drivers threatened to halt their services if the situation on the road which they described as death trap festers. Peeved by the development, the chairman of Akuku-Toru Local Government Area, Rowland Sekiboa, had appealed to the Nigerian Army to redeploy its personnel to the Emuoha-Kalabari Road. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com