Senator Shehu Sani who represented the Kaduna Central in the 8th National Assembly and Peoples Democratic Party’s governorship aspirant has said he will end banditry and revive the textile industries if elected as Kaduna State governor in 2023. Sani said it was unacceptable that bandits decide the fate of citizens of the state, adding that residents could only sleep with their two eyes closed in just two of the 23 Local Government Areas of the state. The PDP governorship hopeful spoke while addressing journalists at the Nigeria Union of Journalists’ Secretariat in Kaduna on Tuesday ahead of the party’s primary. Sani maintained that remained the only aspirant that could defeat the ruling party in the state in the race to the Sir Kashim Ibrahim Government House, Kaduna in the 2023 governorship election. He noted that he was not disputing the facts that all the six other governorship aspirants of the platform were eminently qualified, but added that he was the only aspirant that could confront the state Governor, Malam Nasir El-Rufai. The former lawmaker said, “my aspiration is not a do or die affair. my aspiration is informed by the fact that the state is badly governed by the APC, and I have a list of agendas on the ground to solve the problems. “I am out to unite the people of Kaduna State. I am a bridge that can unite the people of southern and northern parts of Kaduna who have been divided on so many fronts. I want to correct the inequality created by this APC government. “I will also address the security challenges in the state. Kaduna has become a bad example as one of the most insecure states in Nigeria, with the government being helpless. “There are 23 local government areas in Kaduna state and 21 local governments are under security siege. It is only in Kaduna North and Kaduna South that you sleep with your eyes closed. “It has been 49 days since people have been kidnapped in the Abuja-Kaduna train and the victims are still in captivity. “As governor, I will ensure that security is manned by experts who are well trained to address insecurity and not journalists. Sani added, “Kaduna State people today are at the mercy of bandits who now decide who dies and who survives. How come there is no Banditry in most parts of the North but Kaduna. “I want to address the security challenges in the state. I will not be a governor that will say the security of my people is in the hands of the FG, I will answer my name as the chief security officer. “When leaders cannot protect you from bandits and terrorists, they have no business being govt. The people of Kaduna are at the mercy of bandits. “Another major agenda I have is the reactivation of moribund textile industries in Kaduna and provide necessary employment to our people. “I will also embark on infrastructural development which will not only be about the city. I will spread development across all the local government areas. “Kaduna is presently under tyranny. Therefore, I will discontinue bad legacies of the APC but continue with local government election where even the opposition can will election.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com