A presidential aspirant on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party, Dr Peter Obi, has lamented that Nigeria is going through the worst debt crisis ever in its political history and requires wealth creators to salvage the situation. According to him, the country’s debt profile has risen from N3tn during former President Olusegun Obasanjo’s administration to N58tn during the present regime. The former governor of Anambra State, who stated this on Monday while consulting with the Akwa Ibom State chapter of the PDP, said his mission to become president was to change the country from being a consuming nation to a wealth creator. He said a situation where Nigeria uses 90 per cent of her earned revenue to service debt and not repaying those debts portends a major crisis for the country. Obi stated, “Nigeria is in a debt crisis, when you use over 90 per cent of your revenue to service debt, you are in a major crisis. We are in a monumental crisis and that situation has continued, and we are borrowing more money, they will tell you that they borrow for capital projects. “I have been going around asking people to show me the capital projects. When Obasanjo came into power, our debt was N3.5tn and about $28bn and when he left govt in 2007, he brought it down after the debt cancellation but today our debt is N58tn and nobody can tell you this is what it is. “When you ask, they will say it’s used for capital vote. No capital vote is more important than power. We have borrowed over $100bn within this period and we are still at 4,000MW. “We are not taking action that will take people out of poverty but we are throwing them more into it. “Nigeria needs wealth creators; all we do in Nigeria is sharing. We have a single mission to change Nigeria from consumption to creation. Other countries of the world have done it and it’s not rocket science.” He urged delegates from the state to consider the future of their children as they vote in the forthcoming primaries. In his response, the chairman of PDP in the state, Mr Aniekan Akpan, lauded the contributions of Obi to the development of the country and his state. He added that Akwa Ibom delegates would vote on the basis of who would redeem the country.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com