A presidential aspirant in the Peoples Democratic Party, Mohammed Hayatu-Deen, has said his administration will put a permanent end to the bloodletting experienced nationwide. “I would say without fear of contradiction, that my greatest motivation for going in is not just to fix the economy which is at the root of all of our problems but to stop the ocean of blood unleashed in this country,” he said. Hayatu-Deen spoke on Wednesday night when he met PDP members of the House of Representatives who were hosted at the Abuja residence of the Minority Leader of the Federal House of Representatives, Ndudi Elumelu. According to him “nobody with a conscience would see our sons and daughters and their grandchildren and mothers and sisters and aunts and uncles being slaughtered all over the land,” and stand aloof. Selling his candidacy to the lawmakers, the former bank executive said he has the requisite exposure and strategic thinking to turn Nigeria around from a bloodletting nation to the once enterprising nation it was. He explained that he would do this by aligning the private, public, and civil society organisations to boost the activities of the small, and medium enterprises in Nigeria. He explained that at the young age of 30, he worked to breathe new life into the new Nigeria Development Company with over 100 companies under his watch. This responsibility, he said, exposed him to the dynamics of handling pressure from the 19 northern governors and other interests while he expanded the company to the country’s south. He cited his days in the government think-tank, the National Economic Summit Group, saying the country witnessed tremendous economic progress which had been battered by the Buhari regime. Hayatu-Deen said, “We collaborated with Obasanjo in the host of endeavours in order to deliver most of the reforms that he had unleashed and opened up the economic and private spaces. “Remember that time, growth rates were in the region of six to seven to 10 per cent, for a sustained period of time, and therefore Nigeria saw better times during that period. “Unfortunately, we have seen a lot of these frontiers of reform being rolled back. My major motivation, for someone with my background, and as somebody with a proven track record of transformation, is to go back and unlock the switch. Turn it on again, and take this country to the stratosphere. “Nigerians from phenomenal people the entrepreneurial energy that flows through the veins in Nigeria is unparalleled. I can only compare it to the United States because the human ingenuity in this country is unbelievable but there are barriers that are holding us back.” He emphasized the need to “unleash those energies, roll back the frontiers of government and give expression and hope to the Nigerian private sector, represented by small, medium, large-scale industries, to actually come in and play their part by incentivising them, removing all manner of controls and obstacles. “I think, if left to themselves, of course, with reasonable checks and balances, we can actually make this country one of the greatest nations on the face of this planet.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com