A banker, Adegoke Olowoselu’s father, the 80-year-old Onise of Odo Oro Ekiti in the Ikole Local Government Area of Ekiti State, Oba Oyegbadebo Olowoselu, was stabbed to death in 2018 by a prince after spending 29 years on the throne.  The prince claimed the throne belonged to him. Olowoselu tells ABIODUN NEJO  that the death sentence handed to the killer serves far-reaching purposes. Excerpts: Who was your late father? My late father was Oba Oyegbadebo Olowoselu, the Onise Odo Oro Ekiti. He was killed about two weeks to his 80th birthday. He was married to only one wife. The marriage  produced five children, one late now, remaining four of us. How has life been without your dad in the last about four years? Very difficult! But the beautiful thing is that dad trained us how to live in sweet times and in sour times. He  trained us to live and to survive situations no matter what. He respected results more than the resolve being made. He was somebody who wanted you to succeed no matter the situation around you. Even though it had been very difficult,  all of us had been able to move on. The only challenge we have is our mother, who has been very emotional about the situation even when the judgment was given, she was in tears of sympathy for our father. She cried and would not eat for two days after the judgment. Did your dad’s death destabilise the family, especially going by the way he was killed? Of course! What do you expect when you have a star man removed? You should expect destabilisation. When you have the chief cornerstone of a building removed, the building should shake How many years did he spend on the throne? He spent 29 years on the throne and he had capacity to spend more if that gruesome murder had not been committed that day, August 20, 2018. He was hale, healthy and hearty. I was on my way to Ibadan when that incident happened. My attention was drawn to the incident that fateful Monday by one of my brothers who stylishly asked me to come back home despite that I just left Kabiyesi on Sunday, a day earlier. I was on my way to Ibadan for a meeting that Monday. I spoke to Kabiyesi at about 8am that morning, he had tried to check on me whether I had set on my way to Ibadan for the meeting. You said he was healthy. Did you or anybody see his death coming either in dream, vision or through prophecy? There was no prophecy to say that Kabiyesi was going to die. Kabiyesi himself was a Christian, he prayed a lot, he did not see his death coming, nobody saw his death coming. Like I said, even though the mill of God grinds slowly,  it grinds exceedingly fine. This refers to the notion of slow but certain divine retribution. Trial started in 2019, they started with the Magistrate’s Court, the case was not filed by our family, it was a criminal issue. It had to be a case of the state versus the defendant (now condemned person). The state took the matter to court. For us, the case might have taken about three years, but Justice Kayode Ogundana, with the death sentence, did justice to the case. If you felt the pulse of the people, everybody was happy. Look at the details of the judgment, I don’t think any Supreme Court justice will want to controvert the position of the judge which I see to be well researched, very deep. How did the murder happen and who was the killer? The boy in question, Ademola Omoniyi, who killed Kabiyesi, is from our street. I learnt that Ademola came to the palace in the morning wearing white clothes, sitting on the throne. People tried to chase him out, and he left. Kabiyesi’s regular Monday Council meeting known as Ijo Agba Ara, held later that morning. At the end of the council meeting, Kabiyesi left and on his way, the boy (Ademola), who had changed his clothes, came with a dagger and stabbed Kabiyesi in the chest seven times. He died on the spot. He was taken to the hospital dead. We have always known it was a conspiracy, there was no doubt about that. History will judge and God Almighty will judge. For you and the family, how was the trauma of going to court or knowing the matter was in court for three years like? The family was in total disarray. It was not comfortable, we were disoriented and unorganised. The death was unexpected, the killing shook the family to the foundation. No other reason but because my father was good, there was no evidence of him dying so soon. But some people said perhaps the killer was insane. How would you have felt if the judge had considered him not normal? That is an innuendo. It is one of the biggest lies that you can tell in the end time. It was the figment of the imagination of the lawyer who wanted to defend his client. The lawyer will not want to say his client committed the crime. He will look for a reason. The lawyer was approbating and reprobating saying that his client did not commit the crime and later, in the final written address, came out to say that his client was insane. That means he was controverting his initial position.  Ademola (convict), he was somebody agile, the act was intentional, even though what he would not say in court was that he did not alone in it. He may have acted alone but it was a coup, it was a bloody coup. So, you see what happened as battle of royal houses… No doubt about it because we have heard that my father had stayed too long on the throne. There was nothing to hide anymore and none of our family members is afraid of the consequences of what I’m saying. It is common knowledge in our family that some people believed that he had stayed too long on the throne. However, I must say that the Kabiyesi, who is there now is our brother, he has done well, people love him, we are fighting together, we are happy with his coming to the throne, my mother is happy about it, the whole family is happy about it and I think the state government is happy about it. That means he is qualified and he is there. We are in good terms and we are in talking terms What was the relationship of the palace with the killer? It depends on what you are looking at. He is a prince, but not of our ruling house. How old was the killer (Ademola)? What I read from the newspapers was that he is 42 years, but I still see him as very much younger, in reality, he should be around 35 years, he can’t be 42, we know his age mates. We learnt that he said he killed Kabiyesi so that he would ascend the throne which rightly belonged to him, what exactly was he saying? He was only being very silly. When Kabiyesi came to the throne, Ademola could not be more than two or three years, so, how could he be laying claim to what he did not know? Kabiyesi became Onise on September 3, 1989. Demola should be born around 1987. He should be a two or three years old boy when my father became king. The Onise stool is rotational among three ruling houses. If he wanted to lay claim, it had rotated past where he belongs since. He does not have the capacity, but the thing is that he did not do it by himself. Now that your late father has been served justice, what is the way forward? The wheel of justice has just been set in motion. That wheel will definitely roll to places where justice has to be done. I pray that the present Onise, his Royal Majesty, Oba Babatunde Jimileyin, reigns very long and tranquil and that those who may want to truncate his reign will then meet evil on their way. Kabiyesi will last longer than our father. This conversation we are having is to forestall a repeat because a very bad precedence may have been laid in Odo Oro and the whole of Ekiti State, that when one kabiyesi is too old or has reigned for long, he will be killed so that another person will come to the throne. What we are doing now is to ensure the present kabiyesi is not killed the way our father was killed. We want this kabiyesi to reign for as long as possible and other kabiyesis across the state from Ijesa Isu to Ado Ekiti to Ipoti Ekiti to Ejon Alaaye to Ikere Ekiti to Omuo Ekiti (these are the border towns), so that nobody will just take a dagger or a gun to kill a kabiyesi. You can see kabiyesis are being kidnapped, attacked and a lot of things are happening, I want to seize this opportunity to call on the governor of Ekiti State, Dr Kayode Fayemi, to provide security for these elderly and the traditional stool. There must be police security to guard the monarchs and prevent similar things like these happening. There are a lot of wisdom to tap from these elders.    ,, Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com