The Provost of the Corona College of Education, Lagos, Dr Olajumoke Mekiliuwa, has advised students to be agents of change and solution providers. Mekiliuwa made this disclosure during the fourth convocation ceremony and third public lecture organised by the institution in which 150 students of the college received various certificates for the 2020/2021 academic session. In her remark, Mekiliuwa urged the graduating students to look beyond the knowledge and skills they had acquired in the classrooms, saying there were other extracurricular skills employers often looked out for in them. She said, ‘‘Be agents of change, light-bearers, solution providers and pathfinders in confronting the numerous challenges bedevilling the Nigerian education system and the nation at large.’’ The guest lecturer from the Department of Educational Management, Faculty of Education, University of Lagos, Akoka, Prof. Stephen Oyebade, urged the Federal Government and all relevant stakeholders in the education sector to build a school system that would be sufficiently equipped with all modern technological infrastructure on which 5G tools could thrive. Oyebade whose keynote address was titled, ‘Image-making, rebranding and re-evaluation of teaching as a profession in Nigeria,’ said there was a need for consideration of digital upgrade of teachers and other educationists to remain relevant, especially in the new era of artificial intelligence. Chief Executive Officer of Corona School’s Trust Council, Mrs  Adeyoyin Adesina, called on the federal government to support private colleges who were bridging the gap in the attainment of tertiary education for youths, adding that they were  ameliorating the declining quality and standard of education in the country. Also, the CEO of Teachers Registration Council of Nigeria, Prof. Josiah Ajiboye, lamented that more than 50 per cent of those currently teaching in primary and secondary schools nationwide were still not qualified to be in the classrooms.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com