Ace broadcaster, Oriyomi Hamzat, have been arrested by the Force Intelligence Bureau of the Nigeria Police Force over his defiant call for justice on the gruesome murder of Timothy Adegoke, an MBA student of Obafemi Awolowo University. A statement signed by the Head of Station, Agidigbo 88.7FM, Adebayo Grey, a radio station owned by Oriyomi Hamzat, noted that the station’s Chairman had been whisked to Abuja by officers of the Force Intelligence Bureau. The statement read, “We have been inundated with repeated calls and messages since the early hours of today following widespread concerns by well-meaning Nigerians home and abroad, our colleagues in the media and the general public about the safety of our Chairman at Sure Etiquette Media Plus Ltd, the parent company for Agidigbo FM, Ibadan, Agidigbo FM, Lagos and Agidigbo Television, Mr Oriyomi Hamzat. “Hence, we will like to use this medium to inform everyone that Mr Oriyomi Hamzat has, in the past few days, been subjected to regular invites and questioning by several security operatives, including but not limited to, the State Intelligence Bureau; all of which he dutifully honoured and attended to. The premise of these invites and questioning is not unconnected with his consistent call for due diligence in the trial of Chief Rahman Adegoke Adedoyin over the death of Timothy Adegoke who died under unfortunate circumstances in the former’s hotel in Osun State. It would be realised that Mr Oriyomi Hamzat’s constant call for justice for the deceased has been a source of concern for the accused. “However, the entire situation began to escalate when the SIB started plans to hand over Mr Hamzat to the Force Intelligence Bureau. In the early hours of today, Thursday, 26th of May, 2022, he was arrested and as we speak has been whisked away to Abuja. “We seek to reiterate here to well-meaning Nigerians, the media and the general public, that the reason for which Mr Oriyomi Hamzat was arrested is his defiant call for justice for Timothy Adegoke and extensive support for the deceased’s family. We, therefore, appeal to all Nigerians to kindly lend their voices to ensure that Oriyomi Hamzat won’t be subjected to inhumane treatment and undue incarceration just for standing for the truth and for humanity. “We are strengthened by the staunch support and camaraderie from several corners so far and we promise to keep the general public abreast of further developments.” Protests have since broken out in Ibadan, Oyo State capital, over the arrest of the broadcaster. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com