A yet-to-be-identified driver has delivered guns to a man, Aji Augustine, who was expecting to take delivery of foodstuffs sent by his mother to him in Lagos State. The PUNCH gathered that Augustine’s mother, who lives in Cross River State, sent the food items to her son through the driver. On getting to the Ibeju Lekki area of Lagos, the driver was said to have mistakenly handed a package belonging to another person to Augustine. After a while, Augustine opened the package and reportedly saw seven guns in it. He was said to have rushed to the nearest police station to report and handed over the guns to policemen for investigation. The state Commissioner of Police, Abiodun Alabi, while addressing journalists on Friday, said a thorough investigation led to the arrest of one Joseph Ashiwobel, who dispatched the sack from Calabar to Lagos. He noted that during interrogation, the suspect confessed to the crime, and led policemen to arrest two of his buyers, Rasheed Ogunbade, 39, and Aladeokin Ahmad, 38. Alabi said, “On April 23, 2022, one Aji Augustine, of Ibeju Lekki, Lagos, went to receive food items sent to him by his mother from Cross River State through a driver who mistakenly gave him a sack that was meant to be delivered to someone else. “When he opened the sack, he discovered seven locally made pistols. He rushed to the nearest police division and handed over the arms. Upon receipt of the case, detectives embarked on a diligent investigation that led to the arrest of one Joseph Ashiwobel, who dispatched the sack from Calabar to Lagos. “During interrogation, he confessed that he had sold many guns to his customers here in Lagos and he led operatives to arrest two of his buyers, Rasheed Ogunbade, 39, and Aladeokin Ahmad, 38. “Also one locally-made shotgun bought from Joseph Ashiwobel was recovered. The investigation is still ongoing to apprehend other fleeing suspects to recover more of the guns he had sold to people in Lagos.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com