Controversy on Monday trailed the arrest of three traditional rulers in Plateau State by men of the Special Military Task Force in charge of maintaining peace in the state. The traditional rulers, including 55-year old acting Gwom Wereng Community, Davou Ndoh; Ward Head of Kuru Station in Wereng Community as well as the Ward Head of Sham, Ishaya Musa, all in Jos South Local Government, were said to have been arrested by operatives of the task force over allegations of missing cows and moved to the task force headquarters in Jos where they were detained. The spokesman for the taskforce, Major Ishaku Takwa, confirmed the arrest of the traditional rulers to The PUNCH in Jos on Monday. Takwa said, “I have called Sector 6 Commander. He confirmed to me that he made some arrests based on a matter reported to him over the rustling and killing of cows. “Those arrested will be released immediately after investigation is concluded.” However, youths in Plateau State, under the auspices of Berom Youths Moulders Association, in a statement on Monday, condemned how the traditional rulers were arrested and detained, describing it as illegal and an infringement on their fundamental human rights. The statement signed by the National Publicity Secretary of BYM, Rwang Tengwong, noted that the community leaders had visited Sector 6 of the task force on May 14, 2022, to report the security situation in their domain when they were arrested by men of the taskforce and called for their immediate release. The statement read in part, “The attention of the Berom Youth Moulders-Association, has been drawn to the unlawful arrest and illegal detention of the Acting Gwom Wereng, the Community Ward Head of Kuru Station and also that of Sham all in Riyom Local Government Area of Plateau State by the Special Task Force, Operation Safe Haven, on May 14, 2022.”  All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com