No fewer than 10,000 youths on Saturday staged a rally in Lafia, the Nasarawa State capital to declare their support for Kogi Governor, Yahaya Bello’s 2023 presidential ambition. The youths marched from the Kaura plaza along Jos road to the U-turn linking Shendam road, carrying inscriptions indicating their love and support for Bello. The youths who are members of various groups advocating for Bello’s presidency in 2023, said the rally was a way to express their confidence in his leadership qualities ahead of the presidential primary election of the All Progressives Congress slated for later this month. The State Chairman of Yahaya Bello Network, Ibrahim Lawal-Ibrahim, who spoke to our correspondent said another aim of the rally was to appeal to APC delegates to vote for Yahaya Bello during the party’s primary election. He said, “These 10,000 youths comprising male and female who are marching today on our roads, is a way to show the APC delegates in Nasarawa state that we love Yahaya Bello. “He has done so much in Kogi state as Governor and we want him to become the President of Nigeria in 2023, so that he will use his experiences to tackle the numerous problems confronting the nation. “So, we are appealing to the delegates to vote for him in the forthcoming APC primary election. “The groups organizing this rally are five in number. “We have members across the 13 Local Government Areas of the state but we decided that 2,000 members from each group should come out for the rally because we would not want to occupy the entire roads. “Yahaya Bello is a youth, he is aware of the problems confronting Nigeria and he has the solutions. So, I am urging all citizens of the country to join us in supporting his 2023 presidential ambition.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com