The Minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi, has advised the All Progressives Congress party delegates not to waste their votes at the forthcoming presidential primary. In a statement issued by his media office on Sunday, the presidential aspirant had stated this during his address to delegates in Edo State. He urged the people to question politicians who sought their votes on how they had managed the economy. He said, “Politicians will come to ask for your votes, but please, as South-South people, politicians, and good people of Nigeria, don’t waste your votes. The problem with politicians is you. The elites have shown you they are here to ‘chop money’, and you allow them. “They will bring money here and say you should vote for them, and nobody will care to ask, ‘what was he before now, what is his performance?’ The economy they want to come and manage, how have they performed? “Ask me as Minister of Transportation; I am working hard to ensure that the Lagos-Calabar rail line begins and will come through Benin. I can account for my part. So when those in charge of the economy come to you for votes, ask them how they have managed the economy. As I am here, ask me. If you ask these kinds of questions, they will not come forward. “I come with experience; let them come with that experience. I come with the experience of being a Speaker for eight years, and I managed my colleagues without being impeached. The first time in the history of Nigeria that a Speaker will serve for eight years without being impeached, it was me. And I was Chairman of the Speakers Forum twice. A candidate’s electability is essential for you; if not, the APC will lose the election.” The Oba of Benin, Oba Ewuare II, also commended Amaechi during his visit to his palace for his activities in the transport sector. “If you didn’t come out, we would have been surprised. We have heard you; we have been watching all you have been doing as the Minister of Transportation. We commend you for what you have done for the railway lines. Still, the security agencies need to be involved considering what happened the last time on the Abuja-Kaduna railway line. Benin’s throne is non-partisan. However, we endeavour to follow our ancestor’s directives to guide and pray,” he said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com