Seated on a floor with her head bowed and tears rolling down her face, a civil servant, Mrs Grace David, also called Bolu, repeatedly uttered the name of her late husband, “David, David.” She sighed and launched into a dirge. The innocent call of “Dada, dada,” (distorted version of dad) by her one-year and five month-old son ignited another tear as she wailed uncontrollably. Grace is the wife of a sound engineer who worked at a social hub, Bear Barn. He was lynched by a mob on May 12, 2022, following a scuffle between two of his fellow band members and a commercial motorcyclist popularly known as Okada who brought them to a location in the Lekki area of Lagos State. The PUNCH had reported that the two other band members; Francis Olatimji and Phillip Balogun, were hospitalised after the incident. The genesis Narrating what happened when visited by The PUNCH correspondents at her home, Grace said, “My husband went to work on May 10. I was called on May 13 by one of his friends that we lost him. He said his family should come to the Maroko Police Station, Lekki. My relatives and his went there. The police told them that my husband and two other guys took a motorcycle driven by a Hausa and they had an argument over N100. “In the process, one of the commercial motorcycle riders was hit and he fell down and others came to beat them. My husband was beaten and they shouted at him that he was a ritualist and a Yahoo boy. They later burnt him.” Pausing for a while, Grace sighed deeply and summoned courage to face the camera to continue the story. She stated, “But on Twitter, a colleague of his put up a video on what happened. She said my husband was setting up in a bar. Being a sound engineer, he worked with the Church of God Mission International, Lekki, during the day. He also worked with Legacy 360 Band in the evening when there was a show. “My husband was not among those who took the bike. Two guys (band members) took the bike and when they arrived at the venue, an argument ensued between them and the motorcyclist. “They gave the motorcyclist N500 and demanded a balance of N100 but the bike man said he didn’t have change. They told him to take N300 but he refused and a fight broke out. “My husband was invited to intervene in the issue. David intervened because of N100 and was killed. He came to the place to intervene but when they saw that the motorcyclists were overpowering them, they ran back inside the bar but the bar manager pushed them out. He denied knowing them. David tried to hide but a Hausa lady exposed him.” In his account of the incident, a musician and friend to Balogun, John Omowale said that Balogun was still recuperating in the hospital after sustaining injuries to head and body. Omowale said, “Philip is a music director with my band. I was with him yesterday (Tuesday) and while I was there, they were still carrying tests and he complained about an excruciating pain in the waist. But he was better than when I saw him last Friday. He was covered in bandages and had lots of stitches and bruises. He was first taken to a government hospital where it was detected that there was blood in his brain. He was later rushed to Ebute Metta for surgery and was moved on Saturday to another hospital.” The musician told Saturday PUNCH that Balogun told him that the crux of the matter was over an N100 change the bikeman refused to give them. He added that the scuffle started after the bikeman tore Balogun’s shirt and fell on the ground when Balogun, in retaliation, pushed him. He explained, “They were already running late for the event when his (Balogun’s) car broke down at Lekki Phase I Gate. So they took a bike and the bikeman insisted on a fee which they felt was high. They agreed to pay but when they alighted, the bikeman couldn’t give them their change. They didn’t know he was under the influence of drugs and the next thing he (the bike man) did was to tear Balogun’s shirt. “Balogun, who I had never seen fight, pushed the okadaman and he fell. His colleagues came around and they thought he had died and started calling them ‘ritualists, ritualists.’ Balogun has dreadlocks which he covers with a cap whenever he is not performing. So, with the cap no longer on his head, they lied that he removed his cap and put it on the bikeman’s head and he died. They continued to shout, “ritualists, yahoo yahoo boy’’ and with that a crowd gathered and started manhandling them.” Omowale added that David was not at the scene of the incident but was called at the Bear Barn where he was. He stated, “David, as the sound engineer, was already at Bearn Barn setting up when someone came to tell him that his colleagues were being beaten and he went there to rescue them. When the mob saw him, they said he was one of them and dragged him to beat him. I think someone might have overheard when they said they were musicians to perform at Bearn barn. Some people went there to confirm if it was true. But we heard that Bear Barn denied them. “Balogun said at some point they were kept in a car and their belongings stolen so they had nothing as proof than to only say they were to perform at Bear Barn.” He added that Balogun and his friend escaped lynching when he escaped from the car they were kept in and ran. He stated that the mob divided into two, saying “while some ran after Balogun and kept beating him, the others gathered to beat David who was outside the car. Balogun suffered much more injury than the other guy because he protected him because he had health issues.” “Meanwhile, before they set David on fire, the bikeman, who was thought to have died, woke up but they still went ahead to kill David.” Bear Barn’s defence The management of Bearn Barn on Tuesday, in a statement on its Twitter handle, stated that the mob was trying to force its way into its premises, adding that David was alleged by the mob to have used charm on someone for money ritual. The statement read in part, “The commotion was coming from a mob trying to force its way inside, a development that left us confused. We requested to know what the issue was and members of the mob replied that somebody from our facility used a charm to hit one of its members, who was presumed dead. “While we were engaging the mob, David, who was alleged to have used the charm came out of our facility and the mob forcibly took him away from our premises insisting that he was a yahoo boy (internet fraudster) trying to use the bike man for a money ritual. Our internal security men couldn’t stop them in spite of their best efforts. “In further attempt to prevent any untoward occurrence, we called the Divisional Police Officer of Maroko Police station. But before his team could get to our facility, the mob had already burnt David and was on the verge of doing the same to his colleague, Philip Balogun, when policemen from Maroko arrived and dispersed the crowd by firing in the air. “We condemn the clear disrespect for the life of others and wish to state again our support for the government to bring the perpetrators to book. Our prayers and thoughts are with the family of the deceased.” A widow’s plea The mother of two called on the Lagos State Government to ensure justice was served in the matter. With head bowed and hands raised above her head, she cried, “All because he wanted to help settle a dispute, he was killed. They have taken away my world. Lagos Government, Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu, Head of Service, Mr Hakeem Muri-Okunola, and others please help me. I cry for justice and for the welfare of my children. Please come to my rescue. I’m helpless. “How do I take care of these kids? I wanted to earn a master’s degree and get COREN certification as an engineer. Those were his plans for me. My husband is the only one helping me. How will my children go to school?” Calls for justice A family, marriage and relationship coach, Pastor Bisi Adewale, tweeted on Monday, after his visit to Bolu’s father’s house, where she currently resides. The tweet read, “We can avoid these kinds of emotional pictures if we do what is right. I call on @jidesanwoolu to get justice for this family and support this 36-year-old widow to raise her children. She works with the Lagos State Government. #JusticeForDave.” In an interview with Saturday PUNCH on Tuesday, the cleric said justice should be served in the matter, calling for help for the widow and her children. He said, “Their marriage is nine years-old and I have known the wife for about five years before they got married. So we were deeply involved in their choice-making and everything like that until they got married. Until late last year, the wife was the assistant choir director of our ministry. At a point David was also the sound engineer in our ministry. We are their counsellor and mentor so when he died it was a shocking thing to many of us. “Apart from justice, I want people to rise up to help this woman. The wife is a civil servant and the man was a sound engineer. I don’t know his arrangement with the people he set up engines for, but the income is not that much. I laughed when people said he was a ritual killer. I want help for this lady. I am begging all NGOs, women organisations, Lagos State government, churches and individuals to please help Bolu. Some people call her Grace but I call her Bolu.” As of the time of filing this report, David’s corpse had yet to be released to the family for burial. The church where David worked tweeted on Sunday, May 15, on its handle @itischurch4real, calling for justice on the incident. The tweet read, “David Imoh, a member of our church was gruesomely murdered on Thursday night, May 12, 2022 on his way to work by bike riders popularly called “abokis” for no just cause. We demand justice for David. #justicefordavesound #justicefordavidimoh” Contacted by Saturday PUNCH, the church, speaking through an unnamed admin officer, said the church was still in shock over the incident. Also, one of David’s friends, who spoke on condition of anonymity, described him as an industrious, interactive and lively person. He said, “He had a positive vibe around him. He had good managerial skills. He was a big asset and when I heard about his death, I said they took away a great intellectual property that could have been of immense value to Nigeria if he trended for the right reason. The situation is painful. He was not an aggressive person. He was not a millionaire but N100 would not have been a problem to him.” On her part, Grace described her late husband as “a man that is fun to be with who put smiles on people’s faces.” She further said he was a hands-on man, adding that she would fondly remember him for his care and not forget that about him. Recent events Business activities continued around the surroundings of Bearn Barn when our correspondent visited the place on Wednesday. Upon arriving at Bear Barn, after boarding the estate shuttle and alighting at Studio 24, our correspondent observed that there was no activity going around the building. At the facility arena, our correspondent sighted a man who wore a plain black top and carton brown knickers with a black fez cap. Approached by our correspondent, he said he was the guard there, adding that the place didn’t open for business. Bars and shop owners around the neighbourhood claimed they were not around on the day the incident happened. However, one of them, who worked at a bar located a few buildings away, identified only as Ola, said though he was not at the scene of the incident, he heard about it the next day. His account of the incident corroborated accounts in the public space. Lagos moves to curb Okada riders’ recklessness In his response to the incident, the state governor on Wednesday issued an “indefinite and total” ban on Okada operations in six local governments and nine local council development areas. The governor said that enforcement of the ban was effective from June 1, 2022. The affected areas are;, Apapa; Apapa Iganmu  LCDA, Ikeja; Ojodu LCDA and Onigbongbo LCDA, Lagos Island; Lagos Island West LCDA and Lagos Island East LCDA, Lagos Mainland; Yaba LCDA, Surulere; Coker Aguda LCDA and Itire-Ikate LCDA, Eti-Osa; Eti-Osa East LCDA, Eti-Osa West LCDA, Iru Victoria Island LCDA and  Ikoyi-Obalende LCDA. The PUNCH on Tuesday reported that the Lagos State Taskforce, led by its chairman, CSP Shola Jejeloye, stormed the axis in a sting operation at mid-day and seized 115 motorcycles for flouting the state traffic laws by operating on restricted routes and plying the state’s highways. According to Jejeloye, the operation will be a continuous one and not just in Lekki but in every other part of the state. There is a 2012 traffic law in the state which restricts Okada operations on major highways. In January, 2020, the Commissioner for Information and Strategy, Mr Gbenga Omotosho, stated that from 2015 to 2019, over 1,500 accidents involving motorcycles and tricycles were reported in the state with 689 deaths and over 250 injured. However, various attempts by motorcyclists to resist enforcement of the ban had led to several skirmishes with the police and taskforce. In one occasion, a police officer attached to the Lagos State Police Command, CSP Kazeem Abonde, was nine months away to his retirement when he was lynched during a raid. On Thursday, an online petition, started by one Ronke Onadeko, to ban Okada operations in Lagos had garnered 1,755 signatures. But the Hausa community, on Thursday, appealed to the governor to reverse the ban. Case transferred to SCIID, say police The state police command on Thursday told Saturday PUNCH that the case was undergoing investigation. Speaking through its spokesperson, SP Benjamin Hundeyin, the command said investigation was ongoing. Hundeyin said, “Investigation is ongoing. The case is at the State Criminal Investigation and Intelligence Department, Yaba. Four people have been arrested and a manhunt is on for the fifth person.” On why the corpse had yet to be released to the family, Hundeyin said, “If the family requested for the body and they were told to wait, there is a reason they were asked to wait. It means they want to conclude some examinations or something. We are not in the habit of holding onto bodies longer than necessary.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com