The National Secretary of the Peoples Democratic Party, Samuel Anyanwu, and the leadership of the party in Imo State, on Tuesday, disagreed on the outcome of the Saturday’s three-man ad hoc delegates Ward Congress in the state. While Anyanwu said that the Congress was successful, the State Working Committee led by the chairman, Charles Ugwu, said that the exercise was inconclusive. A statement issued in Owerri, the state capital, by Anyanwu’s spokesperson, Ikenna Onuoha, on Tuesday, said the congress was free and fair despite the plot by some moles in the party to truncate it. The statement stated that party members came out en masse at the wards to vote for candidates of their choices. The statement partly read “(The) National Secretary of the Peoples Democratic Party, Senator Samuel Anyanwu, has described as free and fair the just concluded three-man ad hoc delegates election in Imo State, applauding the committee for doing a good job. “The PDP National scribe also thank party members, leaders and critical stakeholders in the state for coming out en masse to vote for their preferred candidates, saying that the exercise was a reflection of true democracy. “He urged members and the public to see the minor misunderstanding during the exercise as a normal thing expected in a big political party like the PDP, pointing out that such family skirmishes cannot divide the unity of the party. “According to him, ‘What is important is the victory of the PDP in the 2023 elections, and not to protect any selfish ambition,’ urging all PDP members to continue to remain good ambassadors of the party. “On the other hand, Senator Anyanwu has described as false and misleading the claim making the rounds that he appointed one George Igbo as ‘Chief of Staff’, adding that such falsehood is existing in the imagination of its speculators. “He maintained that there is no such office at the PDP national secretariat, Wadata Plaza, challenging anyone with contrary view to prove otherwise. “Anyanwu wondered why some stranded politicians are working hard to blackmail him with fake stories that lack the substance, and urged the public to disregard it. “He enjoins those contesting election under the PDP to operate within the party guidelines and shun any act capable of ridiculing the image of the party.” But Ugwu, who was apparently responding to Anyanwu’s claim of a successful congress, said the exercise was aborted because of the inconsistencies on the part of the electoral panel sent from Abuja. The party chairman said the congress could not be concluded because the electoral panel submitted results of 25 Local Government Areas instead of 27 LGAs that made up the state. He said when the electoral panel could not give an accurate explanation of the whereabouts of the result sheets of the missing LGAs of Ideato South and Ideato North, the process was stopped and the available result sheets submitted to State Security Service for safe keeping. The statement partly read, “The Peoples Democratic Party in Imo State feels the urgency to dispel the rumour being circulated on the social media that the ward congresses of our great party in the state had come and gone and the results already declared. It is pressing, too, that we inform members of the party and the public alike to be wary of the activities of some fifth columnists who peddle fake and incendiary stories aimed at stoking the flames of discord, acrimony and rancour. “This party wishes to restate that, in strict adherence to the party’s Constitution and Guidelines for Primaries, the PDP in Imo State, on Saturday, April 30th, 2022, prepared, mobilised our members and kicked off congresses at the 305 electoral Wards of the state to elect the three-man ad hoc delegates. “The exercise had gone on almost seamlessly in much of the state. The options of consensus, harmonisation and actual voting were deployed in the various areas as the stakeholders and leaders deemed acceptable and convenient. “What, however, brought about a setback was when the five-man Electoral Panel for the congresses sent by the PDP National Secretariat to conduct the exercise could not produce and display the result sheets. Upon intense persuasion, they eventually displayed only twenty-five sheets. Two were missing, and they were those of Ideato North and South. Meanwhile, the exercise had almost been concluded in most of the Wards awaiting collation of results. “The bizarre disappearance of the result sheets, coupled with the incoherent, jejune and puerile explanations by the Panel, consequently raised a very serious question about the integrity of the team from the National Secretariat. “Stakeholders feared that the process might have been compromised, and that necessitated the collective resolution to allow the Department of State Services in Owerri to take custody of the results since the exercise could not proceed as planned with incomplete result sheets. “It is further pertinent to highlight that the next day, Sunday, the Panel Members made attempts at the DSS office to abscond with the result sheets. They had no plans to conclude the exercise anymore in Imo State. They blatantly refused to even come to the State Secretariat of the Party in Owerri. “Rather, they made moves to jet out to Abuja with the result sheets. But their plot was resisted by officers and members of Imo State PDP, who then solicited the intervention of the DSS, which graciously accepted to continue to keep the result sheets in its custody. These result sheets are still with the DSS till this moment, and nothing has changed. “The party, therefore, calls on our members and supporters to remain calm and steadfast, confident that the issues will soon be resolved. Party leaders are further advised to tame the overzealousness of their aides and refrain from false statements that are capable of undermining the peace in the party.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com