A former governor of Anambra State and presidential hopeful, Mr Peter Obi, has joined the Labour Party two days after leaving the Peoples Democratic Party. In a statement on Friday titled, ‘The Road to Recovery’, which he personally signed, Obi thanked his supporters and urged them to join him on a journey to “rescue and take back Nigeria” in the LP. The statement read in part, “Since I resigned from the PDP because of issues that are at variance with my persona and principles, I have consulted widely with various parties and personalities to ensure we do not complicate the route to our desired destination. “For me, the process of getting into this high office is as fundamental as what one will do thereafter. “Therefore, I have chosen a route free of rancour and one in line with my mantra of taking the country from consumption to production, and that is the Labour Party, which is synonymous with the people, workers, development, production, securing and uniting the Nigerians as one family. “I invite my fellow Nigerians to join me to take back our country. Be assured that I’ll never let you down.” Meanwhile, the South-East and South-South Network has called on Senator Eyinnaya Abaribe, who just resigned his membership of the PDP and his position as the Senate Minority leader; the Deputy Senate President, Ike Ekweremadu; and other politicians from the South-East and Niger Delta region to join Obi in the LP to actualise his presidential aspiration. The SESSNet, in a statement by its spokesman, Obi Osuji, said the call had become necessary in order for citizens of goodwill to jointly wrestle Nigeria and the former Eastern Region from the hands of political merchants. The organisation also called on all politicians from the South-East and South-South to abandon the PDP and the All Progressives Congress to join the LP. The SESSNET also said Obi’s presidential aspiration had turned into a movement that would salvage Nigeria. The group, therefore, called on Nigerians of goodwill to abandon the PDP and APC and join Obi to satisfy the yearnings of all citizens for peace, security and economic advancement. The statement read in part, “The decision of a former governor of Anambra, Peter Obi, to join the Labour Party is an opportunity for great politicians across the country like Senator Enyinnaya Abaribe, Senator Ike Ekweremadu, Alex Otti and others to join forces and wrestle Nigeria from the hands of political jobbers. “The new party will give an opportunity for Nigerians of like minds to achieve their dreams. “The defection of Peter Obi from the PDP is an opportunity to build a third force, a political party that Nigerians have been yearning for. “It is certain that the political party will be able to deliver the dividends of democracy to millions of Nigerians.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com