A senatorial aspirant of the  All Progressives Congress in Ondo North Senatorial District, Chief Alex Ajipe, has rejected the results of the primary election in the district held on Saturday in Owo, the headquarters of the Owo Local Government Area of the state. Ajipe, who faulted the process , said the delegates’ list used for the election was fake and not the one approved by the Independent National Electoral Commission. Mr Jide Ipinsagba was declared winner of the primary. Speaking with journalists on Sunday in Akure, the state capital, the APC chieftain alleged that the process that led to the primary election which produced Ipinsagba as the senatorial candidate of the party was faulty. He called on the party to cancel the election and set up another one in the interest of all the aspirants. Ajipe said, “The delegates’ list that we were supposed to use for the election was changed and fake list was used. “We saw strange market women, artisans and traders coming into the venue to vote; they were presented to us as delegates. This is very ridiculous to a democratic process.” He, however, expressed his readiness to approach the appeal panel of the party to seek redress over the manipulation, saying he had a lot of documentary for evidence. Also speaking, the Director-General of the Alex Ajipe Campaign Organisation, Tolu Babaleye, said the team would employ all internal mechanism of the party to challenge the process. “If the appeal panel does not do anything to the matter, we will approach the court to get justice. But the party should act on it so that we would not have Zamfara issue here. This is an injustice. We have the original list of the delegates, the certified true copy of the list is with us. The election is far from being free and fair.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com