Seven persons have died in rival cult clashes in Lagos and Ogun states. Two persons were confirmed dead in a cult clash between two rival groups in the Mowe-Ofada area of Ogun State, while five lost their lives in an ongoing clash for supremacy among suspected cult members in the Ketu and Mile 12 areas of Lagos State. It was learnt that the clash which began on Thursday degenerated into a full-blown crisis on Friday morning. City Round gathered that one person was reportedly killed on Thursday evening while the other was hacked to death in the early hours of Friday. The incident caused panic among residents of the area as many traders were too afraid to open their shops for business. “They (cultists) started the fight yesterday (Thursday) evening and continued till Friday morning. Two people were killed at Adesan and Onibode junctions,” a source told our correspondent. The state Police Public Relations Officer, Abimbola Oyeyemi, while confirming the incident, disclosed that the police had arrested a suspect in connection with the clash. Oyeyemi said the command had commenced an investigation into the crisis. He, however, added that normalcy had returned to the area, urging residents to continue going about their normal business. Also, the Lagos State Commissioner of Police, Abiodun Alabi on Friday said the deceased; Ayo Dada, Adesegun Adesanya, aka Ologodudu, and three others were killed during a reprisal by rival cult members. Alabi said one of the suspects, Sunday Tomoloju, linked to the death of one of Adesanya, was trailed to his hideout where he was arrested. He noted that during interrogation, Tomoloju confessed to killing Adesanya, adding that he would be charged for the crime. Alabi said, “On February 20, 2022, one Ayo Dada, now deceased, and two others who were cult members were killed by some suspected rival cult members at Ketu, Mile 12, Lagos. On February 21, 2022, one Sunday Tomoloju and other members of his cult group went on a reprisal mission to avenge their late members and killed one Adesegun Adesanya, aka Ologodudu. An investigation is still ongoing to apprehend other fleeing suspects to recover their operational weapons.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com