The Benue State Commissioner for Finance, David Olofu, on Saturday expressed hope that the Idoma ethnic group in the state may produce the next governor of the state in 2023. Though Idoma nation is the second largest ethnic group in Benue State unfortunately, it has yet to produce a governor of the state 46 years after it was created. In an interaction with journalists in Makurdi, Olofu, who is also the Chairman, Forum of State Commissioners of Finance, said the adoption of the state deputy governor, Benson Abounu, as the Idoma consensus candidate in PDP was a pointer that Idoma nation was on the right track. He said, “There has never been a time the Idoma people were as united and sincere in their agitation as now. Since 1999, this is the only time Idoma people would unanimously present one single candidate for PDP primaries. This is a good hope for us as a people and I pray it eventually ends in praise.” The commissioner advised his Idoma kinsmen, especially various agitating groups, such as Olohi Ka’Idoma, to heed the advice of Governor Samuel Ortom, by continuing to lobby the Tiv stakeholders, for possible understanding before the primaries. Olofu dismissed with the wave of hand report by a group known as  ‘Olohi Ka’Idoma’, that he was secretly working to become deputy governor, a situation that will threaten the chances of Idoma governorship. “Those behind the report were hallucinating.Those who are conversant with political party activities and electioneering process in Nigeria would agree with me that no one talks about deputy governorship of a state, except the governorship candidate emerges in the party, after primaries. “How can one be talking about deputy governorship when we are yet to know who would fly the flag of the party? As a matter of fact, deputy governorship position is not like other positions that are contestable. It’s usually zoned to a particular area and the stakeholders from the area would meet and present an acceptable candidate that can also help the party win general elections. “To say one is contesting for deputy governorship position even when primaries are not yet done, is not only misleading, it is also unfounded and mischievous. It is the figment of the imagination of those who are peddling it.” The Olohi Ka’Idoma had earlier on  Friday, accused the commissioner  of undercurrent aspiration of deputising the Tiv consensus candidate in PDP,  Titus Uba.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com