The senator representing Kogi West Senatorial District, Smart Adeyemi, has raised the alarm over alleged threat to his life and those of his family members. Smart, who is a senatorial aspirant of the All Progressives Congress, said this in a statement personally signed by him on Friday. He claimed to have been warned against contesting for the seat of the Kogi West Senatorial District in the forthcoming election. The lawmaker, who stated that he has since informed relevant authorities, however, did not disclose the identities of those threatening his life. Adeyemi said his perceived enemies actually wanted him to drop his reelection bid to allow someone else to contest the poll, to satisfy a rotation arrangement. He, however, assured his supporters that nothing would stop him from contesting and that the will of the people would prevail. He said, “After due deliberate consultations with very senior citizens and my constituents who believe in me, I have been urged and geared to go ahead and contest this election in continued service to my people. “I am, therefore, resolute to go ahead, irrespective of the consequences, as a free citizen of Nigeria. “I hereby call on well-meaning Nigerians, the masses, whom I have always spoken for, as well as the international community to evaluate my antecedents, my representations both now and in the time past.” The senator said he had no problem with anyone being anointed as the APC candidate but maintained that such arrangement should not be at the detriment of other aspirants. He said, “Every Nigerian has a right to run, and the voice of the people will and must prevail. I, therefore, see no reason why anybody’s life should be at stake for that reason. “The extent to the threat to my life is yet to be defined but they are quite potent and palpable, based on their utterances, and I quote, ‘… if he dares to contest.’”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com