The detained governorship aspirant of the Peoples Democratic Party, Farah Dagogo, will remain in police custody till May 22, 2022, following the adjournment of the case by a Chief Magistrate Court on Monday. Dagogo’s lawyer, Femi Adegbite, had applied for bail at the Magistrate Court but was opposed by the prosecution counsel. He is facing a two-count of conspiracy and cultism in the case brought against him by the River State Commissioner of Police, Friday Eboka. When the matter was called by Chief Magistrate Amadi Nna, he was informed by the counsel for Rivers State Government, Chidi Eke, that fresh information had been filed against the federal lawmaker at the State High Court. The police in whose custody Dagogo, who represents Degema-Bonny Federal Constituency in the House of Representatives, had been since April 28, 2022 failed to produce him in court even as no reason was given for his absence. Speaking to journalists outside the courtroom, Eke said, “We are just coming out of the court in the case of the Commissioner of Police against Farah Dagogo. “He was supposed to appear before the court again today, probably for the court to deliver a ruling on the applications the lawyers to the defendant made the last time. “But unfortunately he (Dagogo) was not produced in court. He was remanded in police custody the last time. “We are yet to know the exact reason he was not produced before the court today, and the matter has been adjourned to May 23, 2022 for mention before this court. “But like I had already informed the court that information had been filed before the high court. The information means a formal charge before the high court. “This means that if we process all of those, we are no longer coming to this court.” Meanwhile, Dagogo’s media aide, Ibrahim Lawal, has accused the Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike, of plotting to nail his principal with falsehood. Lawal in a statement in Port Harcourt alleged that the charges against Dagogo, which he described as trumped-up, were masterminded by the governor and his co-conspirators, to put him away and scuttle his governorship ambition. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com