Sometimes couples aren’t able to get pregnant at all, despite numerous treatment cycles. Sometimes they do get pregnant, but then suffer a tragic episode such as miscarriage or some other condition and lose their much longed-for baby. The situations can be difficult to handle–perhaps more so if you temporarily have a successful pregnancy, only for it to be lost. When this happens, it could be an uphill task to break out of the inevitable doom and gloom that descends. The inability to conceive can be stressful and frustrating.  Approximately one in four couples are not able to conceive a child even though there has been frequent, unprotected sexual intercourse for a year or longer. In about half of these cases, male factor infertility plays a role. Difficult as it is, it won’t do any good, in the long run, to be overrun by the gloom that you can’t break free of. It can put you under enormous pressure. There may be times you would need to come to terms with your efforts at conception being unsuccessful, however never give up. Try to recover and then get yourself back into a state where you can try again. Even if you’ve been advised that it’s unlikely that fertility treatment will ever be successful for you, it’s not necessarily the end of the road as options such as adoption are still viable. Once you’ve been trying for a baby for 12 months and have seen a doctor, you can then progress on taking fertility tests, for you and your partner, to try and determine where any problem lies. Fertility tests are essential. Through testing, your doctor can possibly discover what’s preventing you and your partner from achieving pregnancy. This process, sadly, isn’t simple and there’s no quick and easy solution (although you may be lucky and hit on the cause quite quickly), but once you’re being tested, there is hope that something positive will come out of it in the end. Even though people may not be proclaiming loudly that they have got infertility issues, it’s actually a common scenario. But with such a huge range of treatments available today, there’s a good chance that you’ll be successfully helped in the end. So don’t give up trying. The help you seek so much may be just around the corner. It is time to see the doctor if, as a couple, you are unable to conceive after a year of regular, unprotected sexual intercourse. As a man or a woman, you should take your partner along. Fertility testing involves both of you. Once fertility testing is complete, you’ll meet with your gynecologist or reproductive endocrinologist to discuss it. For infertility, your partner may also need tests to see whether she has any fertility problems that could be preventing pregnancy. It’s also good to have your partner along to help keep track of any instruction your doctor gives you or to ask questions you may not think of. Male fertility treatment is a complex process. Many infertile couples have more than one cause of infertility, so it’s advisable that you are both examined. It may take a number of tests to determine the cause of infertility. In some cases, a cause is never identified. Infertility tests can be expensive and may not be covered by insurance. General physical examination and medical history including an examination of the genitals and questions about any inherited condition, chronic health problems, illnesses, injuries, or surgeries that could affect fertility, may be involved. Steps that can be taken at home to increase the chances of achieving pregnancy abound. One is to increase the frequency of sex. Having sexual intercourse every other day around the time of ovulation increases your chances of getting pregnant. However, note that ejaculating more often may reduce your partner’s sperm count. A woman is likely to become pregnant during her ovulation which occurs in the middle of the menstrual cycle, between periods. We generally recommend having intercourse every two days near the time of ovulation. This will ensure that sperms, which can live several days, are present when conception is possible. Coping with infertility can be difficult. It is an issue of the unknown and you can’t predict how long it will last or what the outcome will be. Infertility isn’t necessarily solved with hard work yet the emotional burden is considerable, and plans for coping can help. So it pays to plan. Begin by setting limits. Decide, in advance, how many and what kind of procedures are emotionally and financially acceptable for you and your partner and determine a final limit. Fertility treatments can be expensive, and often, aren’t covered by insurance. A successful pregnancy often depends on repeated attempts. Don’t get so focused on treatment and fertility procedures until you become emotionally and financially drained. Another strategy is to consider other options. Determine alternatives such as donor sperm or donor egg as early as possible in the fertility process. This can reduce anxiety during treatments and feelings of hopelessness if conception doesn’t occur. Talk about your feelings. Locate support groups or counselling services for help before and after treatment to help endure the process and ease the grief should treatment fails. Stay in touch with loved ones. Talking to your partner, family and friends can be beneficial.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com