The Shalom Community Orphanage Home located at Ikpa Town in the Esit-Eket Local Government Area of Akwa Ibom State has appealed to government agencies and public spirited organisations to come to its aid, saying the children are starving. The 14 years old orphanage, popularly called James 1:27, orphanage was established on January 15, 2008, and currently housed about 50 children. The proprietor of the home, Bishop Evan Udoeakisong, in a statement made available to our correspondent in Uyo, on Tuesday, lamented that the current hardship being experienced in the society has worsened the condition of the children in the home as their personal income could no longer sustain them. While expressing his appreciation to government agencies and individuals for their visits, which he said “have gone a long way to sustain the inmates,” he said with the current challenges, the home was in dire need of food, clothing, medical care and education support for the children. “The development and welfare of the children are also dependent on the good people to some extent who make donations of their time and money. The home would not have existed without donations. “A number of children would have been forced to live miserable lives in foster homes or in the streets. Nothing can be sadder than a child living in abusive and squalid conditions. “No child of this home has ever been abused, maltreated or defiled because the orphanage is managed by true Christians,’ Bishop Udoekaisong said. “It’s hard. We rely on donations from groups and individuals. While we remain grateful for these gestures, they do not, however, come close to meeting our needs in feeding the children and school provisions,” he lamented. The founders of the orphanage said they were, however, grateful that God had used them to remove the stigma attached to the orphans by creating leverage that had promoted equality among the over 50 orphans and their peers all over the world. He appealed to those who could not make it to the place but wished to assist with cash, to use Wema Bank Account Number: 0225100655, payable in the name of Bishop Evans T. Udoekaisong.