The Imo State Police Command on Thursday said it had arrested a native doctor and his gang members who allegedly murdered an Inspector of Police, Felicia Nwagbara. A statement issued by the command’s spokesperson, Micheal Abattam, in Owerri, the state capital, disclosed that the slain cop had been declared missing by the command since 2017. Abattam said that the gang members were arrested at Agwa in the Oguta Local Government Area of the state by the operatives of the Tactical Units of the command. He said that apart from killing the female cop, the gang had been collaborating with criminals and kidnappers who had been attacking the state. Abattam gave the names of the suspects as Casmire Mgbugha, 53, Hycent Chimezie, 30, Hycent 28, Hycent Ifesinachi, 26, Hycent Chimobi, 23, Chukwuemeka Wisdom, 22, and Nnadike Clifford, 72. The statement read “sequel to the receipt of credible information that, the native doctor who prepares charms for fortifications against bullets and knives for members of the proscribed Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) and its armed affiliate, Eastern Security Network and led in the attack and killing of a police officer in Agwa Community has returned after fleeing the Community. “The Command’s Tactical Teams, on 18/5/2022 at about 0600 hours hastily mobilised and with the positive revelations made in course of interrogating the suspects earlier arrested in connection with the killing, the team was able to locate the criminal hideout in Ubah Agwa in Oguta LGA of Imo State and immediately cordoned area and tactical went into the den. “The hoodlums on sighting the police operatives, attempted to escape only to discover that the whole escape routes have been saturated with police operatives hence, they were arrested. They include Casmire Mgbugha ‘m’ aged 53 years, Hycent Chimezie ‘m’ aged 30 years, Hycent Azunna ‘m’ aged 28 years, Hycent Ifesinachi ‘m’ aged 26 years, Hycent Chimobi ‘m’ aged 23 years, Chukwuemeka Wisdom ‘m’ aged 22 years and Nnadike Clifford ‘m’ aged 72 years and on searching the terror camp, the following items were recovered they include; one Toyota Camry car with registration number AKD 73 BF LAGOS, one live Python, eight locally made Pistols, eighteen rounds of live cartridges, one Biafra flag, a pair of Police Carmouflage Uniform belonging to late Inspector Felicia Nwagbara ‘f’ who has been declared missing since 2017 by police authorities “Amazingly, while coming out of the terror camp, one of the suspects, Hycent Chimezie for the second time, attempted escaping and was maimed on the leg. “In the course of interrogation, the suspects confessed to have murdered late Inspector Felicia Nwagbara who was the second wife to one of the suspects – Casmire Mgbugba. They further stated that they are the manufacturers of the locally made guns recovered from them apart from using them in perpetrating crimes they sell to robbers and kidnappers. “The Command, wish to use this medium to appreciate the good people of Imo State for their undaunting support and assure them of the command’s commitments in sustaining the already improved security architecture in the state.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com