In a fresh attempt to deepen financial literacy, Cordros Asset Management Limited a wholly owned subsidiary of Cordros Capital Limited, and licensed by the Securities and Exchange Commission as a fund/portfolio management company has unveiled the Every Child a Milestone Fund Campaign. Speaking on this development in Lagos State, the Head of Retail, Cordros Asset Management Limited, Ayodele Oni said, said the company was happy to announce that Cordros was launching Every Child a Milestone Fund initiative targeted at encouraging parents and guardians to invest in the long-term milestone achievement of their children such as higher education, overseas education, property acquisition, etc. He said, “As Nigeria celebrates Children’s Day on May 27, we think it is quite timely to have a conversation to drive inclusion for children when creating investments. We are encouraging parents and guardians to prepare each child for their future by opening The Cordros Milestone Fund account and enjoy high returns on investment over a long-term at medium risk, investing in liquid asset and encouraging children’s savings and investment culture.” “The Cordros Milestone Fund is open to investors who want to teach their children financial discipline by investing a portion of monetary gifts received from visiting family and friends, while parents contribute significantly and invest in their children’s future.” He added. While speaking on the investment objective, he noted that, the objective of the Cordros Milestone Fund is capital appreciation, diversification across asset classes, automatic rebalancing, automatic adjustment for changing risk profile, annual income and professional portfolio management. On key benefits, he pointed out that, “it’s an opportunity to save and invest on behalf of your children in order to enjoy annual income to meet school fees obligation, peace of mind on your child’s future, long term investment for higher education and achieve other major life milestones.” He further stressed that the company’s target Investors are parents & guardians investing for their children, teachers and school management, individuals, groups and Association looking for ideal gift items for children, noting that, minimum investment is Two Thousand Five Hundred naira only. Earlier in his welcome address, the Managing Director, Cordros Asset Management Limited, GbolahanAina, who welcomed participants to the event disclosed that, the company practice a disciplined value investment approach. He said, “we use both quantitative and qualitative research in arriving at our investment decisions. Each of our client’s investment portfolio is tailored to suit their individual risk tolerance, time horizon and investment objectives.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com