The 2023 general elections promise to be intriguing and full of suspense. Already, a number of aspirants in the different political parties who have indicated interest in succeeding the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.) at the Aso Rock villa on the expiration of his tenure on May 29, 2023. TOFARATI IGE takes a look at the female aspirants who have thrown their hats into the ring and who say they have what it takes to lead the country Uju Ohanenye Shortly over a week ago, Uju Ohanenye, a member of the All Progressives Congress became the first woman to declare her presidential ambition in the party. A businesswoman with interests in the real estate and education sectors, she stated that her desire to become president was borne out of a passion for helping people. Speaking during a recent interview, she said, “I am driven by my passion for humanity. And again, Nigerians need a mother for a change. The men have done their best; I don’t think it is good enough. So, I want to come in as a mother to show Nigerians love, get them involved in governance, which I believe will reduce banditry and crime by 70 per cent.” According to her, she has been ‘touching lives and showering love on underprivileged people’ for over a decade. She added, “For over a decade, I have been touching lives, showering love on the underprivileged. I have built and equipped health centres in rural communities, where I also carry out empowerment programmes. Each time I visit a village and observe their needs, such as lack of health centres, I request for land and put up a fully equipped clinic.” On what her focus would be if she secures her party’s ticket and goes on to win the election, she said, “We keep talking about employment and I believe we can create more employment opportunities for our youths. On the day of my declaration for President in Abuja, I constructed a road to the venue with cement, sand and stones, and also put kerbs and the road is good. By doing so, one has created an avenue for people to make money.” Though the presidential race is mostly populated by men, Ohanenye insisted that she would not be intimidated. Benedicta Egbo A Canada-based professor of education, Benedicta Egbo, says she joined the race ‘to correct the mess past leaders have plunged Nigeria into’. According to her, the country is ripe for a female president. Declaring for the presidency under the umbrella of the National Rescue Movement, Egbo stated that her priorities if she is eventually elected as the president of the country would be ‘an upward review of workers’ salaries and security, among others’. She said, “Nigeria has become a beggar nation and if we are not careful, the country will borrow itself into bankruptcy because no nation can borrow itself into prosperity for recurrent expenditure. “I join the race to serve Nigerians because all past and current political leaders owe Nigerians apologies. The country has retrogressed, rather than progressed. “The frequent cross-carpeting of politicians from APC to PDP is evidence of unprincipled leaders who only care about their selfish interests and lack a sense of direction. “Governance is more than waving umbrellas and brooms. Governance should involve good and principled leadership that is grounded in competency, patriotism and a vision for the common good. Instead, what we operate is a government of a few, for a few by a few.” She also urged Nigerians to avoid recycling old leaders who have nothing new to offer the country. Egbor is professor in the Faculty of Education at the University of Windsor, Canada, where she teaches in the institution’s pre-service and graduate programmes. According to her profile on Google Books, her research interests are interdisciplinary, and include minority education, social justice and equity issues, multiculturalism and multicultural education, language and education, teacher education, and educational policy and leadership. She is also the founding editor of the Journal of Teaching and Learning. Khadijah Okunnu-Lamidi Some people believe that whatever a man can do, a woman can do it even better. A politician, Khadijah Okunnu-Lamidi, obviously belongs to this school of thought as she announced her intention to run for the highest office in the land in January, 2022. A member of the Social Democratic Party, Okunnu-Lamidi, noted that the country needs heroes. She said, “Nigeria needs a new set of heroes who do not need anything dangerous than to perform their civic responsibility and would not for N1 or N1bn trade for the good of our people.” She also stated that her desire ‘to make Nigeria work for its teeming populace while also harnessing the undoubted power of its youth was another motivating factor’ On why she joined the SDP, she said, “I joined the SDP because it is credible and aligns with my vision. I believe I would run the good race to victory and if the primary is not won, there would be no national election.” Okunnu-Lamidi, 38, is a media entrepreneur and a daughter to a former Federal Works Commissioner, Lateef Okunnu. She worked at the Lagos State Signage and Advertisement Agency for four years before establishing Slice Media Solutions. She attended the University of Lagos Staff School and Childville School Yaba for her primary education, before proceeding to Atlantic Hall School for her secondary education. She went on to study Business Management at the University of Bolton RAK Campus in the United Arab Emirates. According to her, if she is eventually elected as president, she would run her government on five pillars— industrialisation, women inclusion, education and innovation; governance and welfare; and law and security. Ify Oforkansi Just like some others on this list, Dr Ify Oforkansi believes it is only a woman that can rescue Nigeria and deliver good governance. A member of the African Democratic Party, Oforkansi recently declared her ambition to become the president of Nigeria. At her official declaration in Abuja, Oforkansi stated that if given the opportunity to preside over the affairs of the country, she will transform it from its current status as the world poverty headquarters to the world’s prosperity headquarters. She said, “If I am allowed to govern our dear country, Nigeria, as president in 2023, I will tackle unemployment, find solutions to insecurity and religious intolerance. (I will also) engage women and youth massively in governance. “I am on a rescue mission to rebirth Nigeria. The land has drunk enough blood. Only a woman can revive this nation since men have failed to tackle her fundamental problems over the years. We cannot remain fugitives in our own blessed country.” Oforkansi, who is also a cleric, maintained that she had a transformational agenda which will give birth to a new Nigeria. She noted that her nine point agenda, which includes education, reforming the power sector, boosting raw materials, tackling of insecurity, improved and mechanised agriculture, would take the country out of the doldrums. Nonye Ezeanyaeche When 102-year-old Nonye Ezeanyaeche declared her intention to become the President of Nigeria, many thought it was a joke. But, Ezeanyaeche, who is the founder of the Voice for Senior Citizens of Nigeria, does not find the situation of the country laughable at all. According to her, she threw her hat in the ring because younger Nigerians were not taking the bull by the horns. In a recent interview, she said, “All my life, I have lived a life of service and offered humanitarian aid. I have travelled far and wide, and garnered enough experience to lead a nation. I have spent my life mostly abroad and I have seen the countries that are flying high and those that are facing challenges, especially corruption. I have seen my own country, Nigeria, going from bad to worse and I have decided to rise up to the occasion because this country needs to be salvaged by all means before it becomes irredeemable and we, the senior citizens, cannot continue to fold our arms. We need to return Nigeria to the country of our dreams. I have seen people suffer and lose their lives needlessly due to insecurity. I have also seen people going to bed without eating and I have seen our young ones roaming the streets in search of employment. “I have seen the healthcare system in the country gone down to nothing. I have seen factories closing down with many having no jobs. I have seen people taking flights to other countries to access healthcare. I have seen our children die in deserts and oceans because they were looking for greener pastures. “So, I said to myself, I can do better than our recent leaders. However, that has not always been my intention. But, having waited up till today and seeing that people are just being recycled over and again within the same government, as if there are no other people in this country of 200 million people who can equally do the job and even better, (I have decided to come out). More so, 50 per cent, if not 90 per cent, of the people being recycled in government are well-known as corrupt individuals. “I have watched our young men and women, who I know that if given the platform, they will not only perform but clearly outperform the current people in leadership circles today. They will use their creative energies to transform Nigeria and in no time, the country will be resurrected to start competing with successful countries around the world. “In terms of human and capital development, Nigeria has gone down. Nigerians are suffering while the wealth of the nation is circulating in the hands of very few people. We need a no-nonsense leader who can be creative and think out of the box to give the country the kind of leadership it deserves. “I am coming out now because the younger ones are not ready to come out and I don’t know why they are afraid, especially those ones from the South-East.” On if she has the energy to rule a country like Nigeria if she eventually gets into the Aso Rock presidential villa, the centenarian said, “Energy is God-given and God-made. I have the God-given energy which He has blessed me with. I am still strong enough to move around and I really don’t have to be everywhere. I will have team members to delegate duties to. Nelson Mandela ruled South Africa at an old age (75). He ruled and we all saw how he galvanised that country within the period. He did the much he could do within the four years he ruled. If I come out in four years and God says I should go for another four years, I will do. Thank God, we have the social media available to simplify all the tasks involved.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com