A Lagos West Senator, Solomon Adeola, on Wednesday, betrayed his emotions while receiving the senatorial expression of interest and nomination forms by some residents of Ogun West Senatorial District, Ogun State. The presentation was made by the residents under the auspices of West to West for Dapo Abiodun in Adeola’s hometown in Ilaro, Yewa-North. Presenting the form on behalf of the group, a member of the Governor Elders Forum, Chief Mufutau Ajibola, noted that the forms were purchased with the contributions from members of the group and sympathisers. Ajibola said the fund was contributed by 71 people within 48 hours. According to him, most of them were civil servants, professionals in the private sector, businessmen, community leaders and Ogun West indigenes in the diaspora. He said, “Distinguished ladies and gentlemen, after the conclusion of the W2W4DA convergence and following the release of the guidelines for conduct of the primary election by the APC, some members of the W2W4DA movement and other sympathisers decided to come together to raise the money needed to procure the APC Senatorial Expression of Interest and Nomination forms, buy the forms and present same to Senator Adeola. “A total of 71 people across the length and breadth of Ogun West, most of them here present cutting across public servants, professionals in the private sector, businessmen, community leaders and Ogun West indigenes in the diaspora voluntarily donated to fund the procurement of the forms, raising the needed amount under 48 hours between 3pm on Monday 18th and Wednesday 20th 2022. “Just as we had young people in their 30s contributing, we also had elders in the 80s putting their hard-earned money into this project. This is an unprecedented feat signifying a new trajectory of collectivism and brotherhood in the Ogun West Senatorial District.” The Senator, while receiving the forms, promised to serve the region diligently when he returned to the upper chamber as Senator representing Ogun West. He said, “I thank God Almighty for a day like this. I am short of words. Today, I am more than happy and I am more than grateful to God for my people to have taken this bold step and to think that the best thing to do is to buy my nomination forms for the Senate of Ogun West. It is more than enough for me. “I vividly remember when I decided to return home; it was tough. I asked myself that this I am about to do, is it the right thing or the wrong thing. Initially, when I saw the heavy resistance that was given to me across the length and breadth of my land, I was afraid when my people said I am not a Yewa man, that I am not from Yewa. I said why? All sort of lies, all sort of confusion everywhere. “Even the then Governor sponsored my people against me. They told me that I am from Ekiti, that I am not from Yewa and they did that rigorously, campaigned with it, said all sorts of things about it. I now turned to be investigated. “My people did not believe me. I had to go to other senatorial district, that is why you hear that Yayi is popular in other senatorial districts then because they believed in me that I was from Yewa. But today, my people have accepted the fact that I am from Yewa. I am now more popular in Yewa, Ogun West than any other state.”