No two marriages are the same and this may only make sense to couples who have grown and experienced the various stages in their marriages and shared wisdom and skills to navigate the challenging times. It is common to make comparisons about other people’s marriages which you believe are your own idea of a perfect marriage and allow them to obscure your own marital aspirations. According to a survey, around 40 per cent of married couples today are complaining about feeling lonely and invisible in their marriages, which is four in every 10 spouses which can have a negative impact on their health and marital well-being as well as their ability to show or receive love. There are many reasons why your spouse can suddenly feel invisible and isolated from the marriage and these reasons can sometimes be difficult to unravel and may require digging deeper especially when it is hindering your own understanding of his/her situation. Escaping your trauma Some people deploy the notion of marriage to escape from the realities of their own childhood traumas expecting that marriage will restore the pains of the past as they start a new life with someone else who has no idea of what they had been through. Unfortunately, this perception is a game of chance that can make life more complicated if the other spouse is also living with his/her own traumas and lacks the emotional strength to carry someone’s problems. Marriage is not a distraction from the reality of past distresses, even if it serves your purpose at the beginning, it can become a visual circle that may end up bringing you more hurts if not addressed. Loss or disconnection In every lonely marriage, the fact is that one spouse is feeling emotionally neglected. It is possible to experience loneliness or feel invisible even when your spouse is loving and caring if you have been disconnected from someone or something you still feel a sense of attachment towards. This feeling can be internal and difficult to suppress which can often lead to feeling invisible even when you are around your loved ones. This can sometimes be due to a spouse feeling emotionally attached to an ex-partner and feeling emotionally distanced from the present marriage or irrepressibly grieving the loss of a child or loved one and finding it difficult to move on despite all the support available. Self-reflection is key When you consider the dynamics of the modern marriage, it may be helpful to pause sometimes and have a self-reflection so that you can become aware of your own emotions and your own contribution to the situation in your marriage. Marriage is not a long-term cure for loneliness if that is your own understanding as loneliness is a shared responsibility in marriage and not a void left for one person alone to fill at the expense of the other. Perhaps you are still angry and wondering why your spouse is not paying attention to your feelings, it may be a good idea to ask your spouse how best you can both support each other and you may be amazed to find out who really needs the help most because silence can be the greatest injustice when one person is feeling inadequate in the marriage.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com