The Akwa Ibom State Governor, Udom Emmanuel, on Monday, received blessings from members of the state Traditional Rulers Council on his aspiration to succeed the President, Major General Mohammadu Buhari (retd.), in the forthcoming 2023 presidential election. The governor received blessings from the royal fathers at the Government House in Uyo while in consultation with them. Emmanuel said intimating the royal fathers on his ambition was necessary as a mark of respect and one of the most important consultations to be done before proceeding to a formal open declaration. Speaking during the meeting, Emmanuel stated that “Nigeria needs divine intervention to avert imminent collapse in view of the poor economy and general insecurity in the country”, adding that it was because of the terrible situation in the country that he offered himself to run for the office of the President. He added that “Nigeria’s plight is not beyond redemption”, affirming his possession of the requisite capacity and experience to rescue the nation. Responding on behalf of Paramount Rulers, the President General, Akwa Ibom State Traditional Rulers Council, Ntenyin Etuk, said the royal fathers were proud of Governor Emmanuel’s accomplishments in the state. He expressed gladness with the bold step the governor had taken in aspiring for the nation’s number one office, adding that he has the blessings and support of the traditional institution in the state, while praying for success in his aspiration. Among those in attendance included Deputy Governor, Mr Moses Ekpo, the Secretary to the State Government, Emmanuel Ekuwem, Commissioner for Local Government and Chieftaincy Affairs, and frontline governorship aspirant, Pastor Umo Eno, a cross section of paramount rulers in the state. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com