Governor Kayode Fayemi of Ekiti State has said the race to the office of the President of Nigeria is not a ‘do or die’ affair, adding that it is about development. Fayemi, who is also the chairman of Nigeria Governors’ Forum, said he has the magic wand to develop the country. He made this disclosure on Wednesday during a consultative meeting with delegates of the All Progressives Congress in Gombe State. Fayemi revealed that the contest should be about ideas, urging the Gombe delegates to opt for him. The governor stated, “I have to request, plead and to justify my candidacy to the leaders of our party here. I hope that having listened to me and considered my experience, capacity, competence and knowledge for the terrain, they will positively respond to my prayers. “This contest is nothing but about competing visions, we all should present our visions to the people. The vision should be scrutinised and then conclusions should be reached by members of the party.” Speaking on his commitment to the party after the primary, in case the result is not favourable, Fayemi added, “I’m a foundation member of this party, there is nothing, including  not being the choice of the party, that will make me subvert the overall interest of our party in presenting the country with a successor to President Muhammadu Buhari. “So, for me it is not even a contest, it is a competition. I hope my vision will be the successful vision that our party members rally round. It is not a do or die, but about progress and development for our people. It is about fundamental response to ordinary Nigerians and it is about building on the gains that our President has achieved in the last seven and half years of being in the saddle and of course addressing the gaps that Nigerians will like us to also address.” On the issue of security, Fayemi said there must be an increase in the number of security personnel to curb insecurity. According to him, the number of security personnel manning the nation’s security architecture today is grossly inadequate for its security demand. The governor said he would make security first, job creation number two priority if elected as President, while electricity generation would be number three because the country’s economy cannot run without it. “There is nothing wrong with our youth. They are strong and talented, we only need to direct their energy to productive ventures that will bring development to the country,” he said. Also speaking, Governor of Gombe State, Muhammad Yahaya, said Fayemi is qualified. He enumerated the various positions that the governor had occupied which included his position as former minister. Yahaya said, “So many have mentioned what you have done and what you will do from your days in the civil society to the days of National Democratic Coalition, to when you became a minister, and then a governor. You are eminently qualified to be President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria and for so many reasons; the people in this room have reasons to stand by you.” Yahaya explained that his colleague governor would do better than he has done in Ekiti State. “Knowledge, experience, energy, dexterity, capacity, Dr John Kayode Fayemi is eminently qualified,” he added. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com