In an effort to put an end to environmental pollution in the Niger Delta region, a group under the auspices of the Africa Network for Environment and Economic Justice, wants Shell Petroleum Development Company to stop extraction of fossil fuel in the region. Addressing journalists during a rally in Lagos, the Convener and Executive Director ANEEJ, Rev David Ugolor, said, “Shell should recommit themselves to the ending gas flaring, climate injustice, environmental degradation, and also to send a strong signal that the church of England, one of the investors in Shell company and other investors must engage Shell to return back to the people.” ANEEJ is working with climate justice activists in Nigeria and around the world committed to limiting global warming to 1.5°C in line with Paris Climate Agreement and Glasgow 2021 Commitment for net-zero advocates against Shell’s operations in Nigeria. Ahead of the Annual General Meeting of the oil and gas giant, Shell Petroleum Development Company, SPDC, scheduled on May 24, 2022, broad-based civil society organisations have called on the Church of England and other investors to stop lending moral and financial support to Shell and vote against its energy transition strategy at the AGM. Shell’s operations in Nigeria’s Niger Delta have contributed to carbon emission, environmental degradation, and destruction of livelihoods and human rights violations, they said. The Executive Director of Indigenous Centre for Energy and Sustainable Development, Legborsi Pyagbara, said, “We are protesting against the activities of Shell in Nigeria. The world has made a commitment that steps have to been taken to reduce carbon emission, and we are not comfortable the way Shell is going about it. “They must comply with the Paris Agreement of limiting the increase in the average global temperature to 1.5 degrees Celsius above pre-industrial levels. “Shell’s operations in the Niger Delta today have led to global warming in the whole world. We see oceans rise, flooding, boundaries are being withdrawn. If we want to make the world a safe place, Shell and its cohorts must stop the fossil oil extraction in Nigeria. “Climate change is not just a change but a developmental challenge, human right challenge and an environmental challenge.” The National Co-coordinator, Publish What You Pay Campaign, Taiwo Otitolaye, said: “For almost forty decades, Shell has destroyed the environment. Shell has done what we call ‘Corporate Capture’. “Our economy, the people are in abject poverty, because, if you go to the Niger Delta region, things are horrible there. The environment has been destroyed and polluted. Means of livelihood has been destroyed by Shell. Also, by extension, education and healthcare services have also collapsed.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com