TODAY, I stand before you as an advocate of Sustainable Development Goals, a freedom fighter, a peace evangelist, a public sector reformer, a humanitarian promoter and as a development enthusiast. Today marks 61 years and three months of our great country’s birth—Nigeria’s independence. Regrettably, we have a country without a nation. Things are not faring well for the citizenry. This is the most challenging time for the country after the 1967 Nigerian civil war. You and I must change the narrative of our fatherland for our children and unborn children to inherit a working country with strong institutions. What do you want to be remembered for? Our children must remember our sacrifices for this country and how we set the track right. For that great cause towards humanity, I have a dream! I have a dream that one day the son of nobody will become somebody; without knowing anybody, he will land a good-paying job without rubbing hands; he will gain admission without knowing any school principal administrative officers; he will be recognised and treated with courtesy in our public sectors without the influence of her ethnic or tribal linings coming into play. I have a dream that Nigeria will be great. When Chika of Anambra can be seen as Nigerian in Kano and not as Igbo descendant; when Madueke can easily own landed property in Zaria without fear of being confiscated, castigated as an intruder and dominator. I have a dream that Nigeria will be a hub of different ethnics’ melting pot where Aminu, a native of Kanuri, can own business and property in Ibadan without fear of being set on fire when a disagreement breaks out but rather protected by all Nigerians irrespective of their tribes. I have a dream that Nigeria’s multi-cultural ethnic groups will be an asset when Adewale from the Awori kingdom can easily school in Rivers without fear of being ethically wrong. I have a dream that we will overcome these loads of challenges. The rising poverty level; the galloping inflation; the overflowing stream of out-of-school children; the mosaic insecurity in the land. Do not despair, my people. We must embrace pain and burn it as fuel for our journey, says Kenji Miyazawa. For those that believe in divine supremacy, seeking His intervention; is it by proceeding with a positive attitude that actions shall yield positive results? Are you ready to join me to fight against the endemic corruption in the land? Are you ready to be a hardworking, honest and transparent civil servant? Are you ready to abandon that bad way of yours that has caused Nigeria of her greatness till this moment? Are you ready to be a Nigerian and not a Hausa, Igbo or Yoruba in taking Nigeria to a greater height? I have a dream that one day the sons and daughters of senators of the 9th Assembly; the sons and daughters of presidents, governors and the sons and daughters of political office holders together with plebeians’ sons and daughters will attend Nigeria’s ivory towers. Then, our educational institutions will rub shoulders with Harvard of America, Oxford of UK and Toronto of Canada. I have a dream that Nigeria’s health sector will, one day, no longer be a mortuary or where Nigerians get their death sentence. An illustrious day when Nigeria’s doctors will no longer run to the UK, USA or even Saudi Arabia. That day when Nigeria’s president and the first family of the nation will no longer fly out of the country for medical treatment but rather be treated in our well-equipped and globally positioned health centres. I have a dream that Nigeria’s mammoth human resources and gargantuan material resources will serve as a machinery towards Nigeria’s economic revolution. A fast paced development that will make the country meet-up with her Asian Tigers counterparts. From the Middle Belt to the North; from the South to the East. Nigeria will remain an indivisible country and in her unity in diversity, each region will contribute to her greatness. I have a dream that a day will come soonest that Nigerians will enjoy 24 hours power supply; constant water supply; good motorable roads complemented with electric light rail. A day when executives will be effective public managers, legislatures will turn out to be the best gatekeepers, and judiciary will attract and magnet transparent, diligent and brainy law-keepers. That day will come oh optimists! I have a dream that Nigeria will truly become the Giant of Africa and she will lead other African nations out of backwardness into progressiveness. Oh, ye who believe in the greatness of Nigeria, I call on you today from the Freedom Park of Gani Fawehinmi to rise, unshackle Nigeria from her economic backwardness and push her into the limelight of greatness. Copyright PUNCH All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com