Happy Eid ul-Fitr and the May Day that ushered it in. Since the mood is still festive, today’s lesson is going to be light. Just one or two observations and we are out of the class. You know, man shall not live by grammar alone. We are examining the masculine and feminine concept – a very old and traditional topic, really. It is, however, from the perspective of some gender terms that are often confusing or slippery. The first set comprises (not comprises of!) words used in describing members of old students’ associations or people who have left certain schools or universities after completing their studies: alumnus, alumna, alumni and alumnae. What are the differences in their meanings? That person who has graduated from the institution or a member of an alumni association, whether male or female, is an alumnus. The female alumnus is an alumna. The plural form of alumnus is alumni, while the one for alumna is alumnae. But, like alumnus, alumni can also refer to males and females. As a result, while the graduates of a male-only school are alumni, those of a mixed school are also called alumni. But ‘alumnae’, which is the plural form of ‘alumna’, refers to only a group of female graduates, say, graduates of an all-female school. In other words, alumnus and alumni can refer to males and females, but alumna and alumnae refer to females only. Consider the following: Caleb is an alumnus of UNILAG. (A male) Bimbo is an alumnus of UNILAG. (Correct, though a female) Catherine is an alumna of UNILAG. (A female) Queen is an alumna of UNILAG. (Also a female) Odunlade, Catherine and Queen are alumni of UNILAG. (Males and females) Catherine and Queen are alumnae of UNILAG. (Females) Odunlade is an alumna of UNILAG. (Wrong, because he is a male.) Odunlade and Catherine are alumnae of UNILAG. (Wrong. We can only call them alumni since a male is involved.) Actor vs actress A person who plays a role in a play or film is an actor. This is irrespective of the gender, as indicated by the word, ‘person’. This means that Emeka Ike is an actor and Omotola, a female, is also an actor. Yet, the noun has a feminine counterpart – actress – to which only female thespians are entitled. So, while Emeka can only be called an actor, Omotola is an actor and an actress. Confidant or confidante? This is another interesting pair, with one referring to both and the other restricted to one. A confidant is someone to whom one entrusts a secret – whether male or female. But ‘confidante’ seeks to strike a gender balance, referring to a girl, lady or woman the secret is banked with. So, if you use ‘confidant’ for men and women, you are right, but it’s only women you can use ‘confidante’ for.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com