The New Nigeria People’s Party, on Tuesday, expressed shock about the massive gas cylinder explosion in Sabon Gari area of Kano State in which nine persons reportedly died and many were injured. The party called on the Kano State Government to ensure that those dealing with combustible and inflammable materials were not permitted to operate near schools to avoid a recurrence of such tragedy. The NNPP made its position known in a statement issued by its National Publicity Secretary, Agbo Major, in Abuja. The statement read, “Our heart bleeds over this tragedy that affected a nursery and primary school with traumatised children running for their lives. “The NNPP is deeply saddened over the gas explosion and prays to God Almighty to console, comfort, and strengthen families of the deceased and speedy recovery to the injured. “We urge security agents and relevant government agencies to ensure that those trapped in the debris of the collapsed buildings are rescued and receive adequate medical treatment. The traumatised schoolchildren should also receive proper medical care. Our thoughts and prayers are with those affected by this deadly explosion. “The Kano State Government, indeed, governments at all levels in Nigeria, should ensure that those dealing with combustible and inflammable materials are not permitted to operate near schools to avoid a recurrence of this tragedy. “The safety of all Nigerians should be a priority in considering business premises permits and approving schools. This is in tandem with Section 14(2)b of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria 1999, as amended, which provides that the security and welfare of the people shall be the primary purpose of government. Nigerians expect dividends of democracy, not carnage. “It is obvious that the masses desire and deserve a new Nigeria which only the New Nigeria People’s Party is poised to usher in, in 2023, if voted into office. Together, we will build a strong, virile, united, prosperous, equitable, and decent democratic society.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com