Real estate remains the inarguable sector to give investors maximum returns despite the seriously turbulent tides of the economy over the past few years. That said, two unmatched real estate goldmines for investors at the moment are shortlet and rental income. There are several locations where one can be rest assured of massive return on investment and one location where rental income is working like a dam to channel an inflow of serious returns is Banana Island. Even in Banana Island, there are several investment options to choose from, but as a truly savvy investor, wouldn’t it be superb if you could squeeze out every ounce of profit from your investment? That’s exactly what investing your ₦29.99 million initial deposit at Riverside Annex will get you. When it comes to delivering opulent homes on Banana Island Road, Riverside Annex remains unrivalled. We have intentionally done the rigorous foundational work to give investors an experience of what sophisticated living truly means. Riverside Annex is an architectural marvel that exceeds the limits of regular construction in Nigeria, to match European standards. We are helping smart investors like you build and preserve wealth for your children and grandchildren. An average 2-bed apartment in Ikoyi is built with grade 25 concrete and sold with an initial deposit of between ₦99M– ₦115M. Our 2-bed apartments are built with European grade 40 concrete, and can be all yours for ₦89.99M when you buy 1 unit, or even at a discounted ₦79.99M when you buy 4 units. Amazing; right? What’s even more interesting is the fact that with some of the other options in Banana Island still can’t match up to Riverside Annex when it comes to amenities and features. However, let’s focus on something more substantially fundamental than your initial cost, which is – How long you get to earn on your apartment as an investment and at what rate as against the average Ikoyi home. Shortlet for a 2-bed in Ikoyi on average, costs about ₦100K per night, and if one decides to open up for just 200 nights out of the 365 days in a year, then ₦20M would’ve been made for the year. Rental income averages between ₦9M – ₦17M annually, and that’s a realistic price, thanks to the strategic location of this iconic edifice. In just 5 years, an annual return of ₦20M puts you on top of your investment capital already at ₦100M. If you formed investment partnerships and got the bulk purchase discount of ₦79M, then you would’ve made way more than your investment. The only risk in all of this is the likelihood of you missing out on this great deal. Just as Riverside Apartment got sold out before several investors could react, Riverside Annex is already following the same path. This rewarding investment can be left as a standalone space for any ROI option desired, as our customization option gives you the freedom to have your apartment merged to form uniquely styled super-luxurious duplexes. A lot of new investors are taking the bold step of investing in the most luxurious homes on Banana Island Road. Making an investment in Riverside Annex today is guaranteed to yield massive returns tomorrow Promo Offer 2-Bed Apartment on Banana Island Road For only ₦29.99M Initial Deposit Pay ₦79.99M each, when you buy 4 units or ₦89.99M when you buy 1 unit For enquiries: Call – 07025003664 Address – Banana Island Road; Ikoyi, Lagos Website – www.fwl.ng