Vice President Yemi Osinbajo has picked his Expression of Interest and Nomination forms to contest the 2023 presidential election on the platform of the All Progressives Congress. His spokesman, Laolu Akande, made this known on Thursday. Akande said the forms were collected by representatives of Osinbajo’s support groups. He said, “A passionate team of support groups and individual Nigerians from across the country have raised funds to support the purchase of APC nomination forms for the Vice President’s 2023 presidential bid. “Today, the forms are being collected by representatives of the team, just as the VP continues his interactions with APC stakeholders across the States. Today, VP Osinbajo is in Cross River and Bayelsa States.” The APC expression of interest and nomination forms cost N100 million. In the APC, at least 15 southerners are already in the race. They are Governor Dave Umahi of Ebonyi State, Governor Ben Ayade of Cross River, former Governor Rochas Okorocha, ex-Governor Adams Oshiomhole, APC stalwart, Bola Tinubu, Vice-President Yemi Osinbajo, Governor Kayode Fayemi, the Minister of Niger Delta Affairs, Godswill Akpabio, the Minister of State for Education, Emeka Nwajuiba and a former Senate President, Ken Nnamani. Others from the South contesting on the platform of the APC include the Minister of Labour and Employment, Chris Ngige, former Governor Ibikunle Amosun, Minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi, and influential Pastor, Tunde Bakare. Osinbajo had on Wednesday during his visits to Taraba and Adamawa states, in continuation of his engagements with stakeholders and delegates of the APC in the states said, “My reason for aspiring for the office of the President of Nigeria is to serve the Nigerian people. I have no other reason or objective except to serve. “After one has been in office as Vice President for 7 years, I know that God did not give me that opportunity so that I would seat down somewhere and write the history of my service as Vice President. “It is for the purpose of serving the people, and that is why I am so determined that if God gives me the opportunity to serve, the Nigerian people would realise indeed they have done the right thing by putting me in office because I would serve the country with everything, with all my heart and commitment.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com