Bayelsa Queens Sunday emerged the 2021/2022 NWFL Premiership Super Six champions after they edged Nasarawa Amazons 2-1 in the last match of the season’s prime event at the Samuel Ogbemudia Stadium in Benin City, Edo State. Gift Monday’s first half brace in the 25th second and 25th minute proved decisive to hand the four-time champions the coveted trophy and the top cash prize of N5m. Basirat Amoo scored Amazon’s goal in the 16th minute of the keenly-contested match-day 5 clash. Monday’s 25-second goal went down in history as the fastest goal of the 2021/2022 NWFL Premiership Super Six championship. As first runners-up, two-time champions Nasarawa Amazons pocketed N3m, while the second runners-up and dethroned champions Rivers Angels went home with N2m. With the win, Yenagoa-based Bayelsa Queens will represent Nigeria at the WAFU Zone B play-off for the second CAF Women’s Champions League. Rivers Angels had the enviable honour, as champions, to have represented the nation at the maiden edition in Egypt. Aside being the newest champions, Bayelsa Queens players claimed all the individual awards in the championship. Lethal finisher Monday, on loan from Robo Queens, won the NWFL Premiership Super Six top scorer award with a massive 12 goals, Most Valuable Player and the Woman of the Match in the last day clash against Nasarawa Amazons. Bayelsa Queens’ Cameroonian goalkeeper, Gabrielle Ange Bawou, won the championship’s best keeper award. The newest champions amassed a total of 15 points, having won all their five matches against Nasarawa Amazons, Rivers Angels, Delta Queens, Edo Queens and newcomers, Naija Ratels. Naija Ratels lost all their five matches and had the ignoble record of not scoring a goal in the championship. All the six participating teams in the Tulcan Energy-sponsored NWFL Premiership Super Six were given N1m each courtesy of the league body, NWFL.w  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com