An oil mogul, Dr Peter Mbah, has emerged winner of the Enugu State Peoples Democratic Party governorship primary election. Mbah defeated eight other aspirants after eight withdrew from the election with a total of 790 votes. Although, Senator Ike Ekweremadu had earlier in the morning announced his withdrawal from participation, he only got one vote. The former Chairman, House Committee on Information, House of Representatives, Hon Chijioke Edeoga, got nine votes. Mr Chukwunta Gilbert got one vote, while the former Permanent Secretary, Federal Ministry of Youths and Sports, Sir, Ohaa Christian Chienyeaka scored three votes. Senator Ambuno Zik Sunday who led the Electoral Panel from the National Working Committee of PDP announced the result of the primary held at Nnamdi Azikiwe Stadium, Enugu. Announcing the results Ambuno said “total accredited Voters – 812; Barrister Peter Mbah 790 votes. I
Total vote cast 804, three invalid votes 3. A total of 780 delegates that made up of 3-man Ad-Hoc delegates elected from the 260 wards with 17 local government delegates voted at the primary. However, former Minister of Power, Prof Barth Nnaji, did not get any vote. In his victory speech, Mbah thanked his co-contestants and the incumbent Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi for making the feat possible. He promised to serve the people of Enugu State with sincerity and honesty and would be fair to all and all sections of the state. Before voting commenced, eleven aspirants out of 17 had stepped down from the race in support of Mbah, who was the eventual winner of the election. The committee chairman listed the aspirants who had stepped down to include Gilbert Nnaji, Abraham Onyishi and Kingsley Udeh. Others include Erasmus Anike, Nwabueze Ugwu, Raph Nwoye, Prof. Jehu Nnaji, Beloved Dan Anike and GOC Ajah Aspirants such as a former deputy senate president, Senator Ike Ekweremadu and Chinyeaka Ohaa were not present in the elect Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com