NOWNOW Digital Systems has been selected to participate in the Mastercard Start Path Global program, becoming the only African startup in this latest cohort. The programme, which was created to help later-stage startups innovate and scale, has only eight startups in its latest Start Path class. According to the firm, the programme will provide the firm opportunities to co-innovate, gain expert knowledge, and reach a global customer base. The Chief Executive Officer, NowNow Digital Systems, Sahir Berry, said, “It is a pleasure to be recognized as an emerging leader in the fintech sector, and our participation in the Mastercard Start Path engagement program reinforces our commitment to enabling innovative financial solutions. “This opportunity means that NowNow can scale its solutions while learning from the leading global payment technology company. Combining this expert guidance with our innovative solutions, we are confident in the future.” Country Manager and Area Business Head, West Africa at Mastercard, added, “At Mastercard, we are proud to collaborate with businesses that are committed to the development of the local digital payments landscape which directly results in the growth of the economy. “The Start Path program was designed to enable high-potential fintech startups to take advantage of Mastercard’s resources to co-innovate and quickly scale up operations. As the digital economy increasingly becomes the economy, enabling NowNow to achieve its vision only brings us closer to our financial inclusion commitment to connecting a total of one billion individuals and 50 million micro and small merchants to the digital economy by 2025.” According to Mastercard, its programme provides it has provided mentorship and support to about 300 startups globally since 2014. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com