The National Youth Service Corps in Nasarawa state has inaugurated a free medical outreach to improve the health conditions of about 15,000 rural dwellers in the state. The programme, scheduled for the first quarter of 2022, was planned by the Health Initiative for Rural Dwellers, a medical outreach under the Community Development Service of the NYSC. Speaking during the inauguration ceremony in Nasarawa Local Government Area on Thursday, State Coordinator of NYSC, Abdullahi Jikamshi, explained that the outreach was designed to reach out to rural isolated communities in the area and provide medications and treatment where necessary at no cost. He said, “We would be working with some medical personnel including corps medical personnel such as doctors, nurses and pharmacists who would listen to them and provide prescriptions where necessary. And referrals will be made to medical facilities that can handle ailments we cannot handle here.” Jikamshi said the medical outreach would be for four days and carried out in three communities which include the Loko and Ara communities in Nasarawa LGA and the Marhai community in Wamba LGA of the state. “Circumstances beyond our control led to the late conduct of the first quarter of this year’s HIRD programme. The scheme is targeting between 10,000 to 15,000 rural dwellers with health issues, for treatment. “I want to thank our partners who selflessly provided medical drugs and other needs for the outreach to be conducted. They are the pillars behind the success we record. They support us materially, financially and through counselling”, Jikamshi added. In his remark, the Emir of Loko, Abubakar Sani expressed joy with the scheme for choosing his domain to inaugurate the first quarter of 2022 HIRD medical outreach which he said would go a long way to assist his people to evaluate their health situation. He said, “This is a good initiative from the NYSC so I am urging my people to come out en masse to receive medical consultation, treatment and referral for whatever ailment they are suffering from. “I also want to appeal to the NYSC staff and the Corps medical team carrying out the outreach not to be in haste but take their time to ensure that every sick resident of the community is attended to.” Head of the NYSC Corps medical team, Dr Ado Sanusi, said the team’s focus was to offer basic primary care ranging from consultation to medical investigation such as malaria tests, typhoid tests, blood sugar level tests, and blood pressure checks, among others. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com