Since the COVID-19 pandemic, the Nigerian economy has struggled and the naira has come under the weight of foreign currencies. The growth rate declined by -1.8% in 2020, grew by 3.4% in 2021 and is projected to maintain the pace in 2022.The economy endures a high inflation rate of 15.9% (March 2022) and a high unemployment rate of 33.3% (Q4 2020). The value of the naira has dwindled from N360/dollar in 2019 to N580/dollar in 2022; the national reserve is shallow ($39 billion as of April 2022) despite the surge in energy prices since the Russia-Ukraine war. What is the future of the naira economy? Four years ago, I wrote an objective critique of one man’s advocacy (of over two decades) on the value of the naira. The advocacy was oriented solely towards improving the value of the local currency and the Central Bank of Nigeria’s insistent monopolistic stance in the foreign exchange market. The general idea of the long-standing advocacy is the liberalisation of the foreign exchange market and the introduction of dollar certificates as payment to statutory beneficiaries. The man was Sir Henry Olujimi Boyo. Sir Boyo described the foreign exchange market in Nigeria as unilaterally controlled by the CBN. He explained that the CBN unilaterally fixes the naira exchange rate after retaining all foreign exchange revenues of the (sub-national) governments. Based on this fixed exchange rate, CBN disburses naira warrants as allocation to the statutory beneficiaries: state governments, ministries, departments, and agencies. The CBN also sells to Bureaux de Changes and commercial banks at the same rate. This rate is the official exchange rate. Sir Boyo argued that by retaining the dollar revenues of the state and disbursing the naira equivalent to the statutory beneficiaries, the CBN creates a surplus naira liquidity (relative to the dollar) which creates inflationary and devaluation pressures against the naira. To curb the inflationary pressure, the CBN intervenes by selling foreign exchange reserves and/or securities­­­­­­­­­ through open market operations. This cycle continues until the reserve balance is depleted. In a paper presented to the National Economic Intelligence Committee in 2002, Boyo and his colleague, Adaighofua Ojomaikre, articulated what they thought was the solution to the “salient features” of the Nigerian economy due to economic mismanagement. They posited a framework of liberalised exchange rate where the CBN issues dollar certificates to the statutory beneficiaries instead of naira warrants. These beneficiaries would, in turn, present the dollar certificates to commercial banks in demand for naira. Under this framework, the dollar appears to be buying/chasing the naira: the currency in demand appreciates. In his many short articles, opinions, and comic illustrations, Sir Boyo systematically linked the socio-economic challenges in the country to the mismanagement of foreign exchange revenue and the inconsistencies of fiscal and monetary policies. He criticised several policies including; the CBN’s stance on Monetary Policy Rate (MPR) above 12%, Nigeria’s borrowing and debt profile, the presidential import waivers, and the arguments on fuel subsidy administration. He remained steadfast in his ideas that the correct valuation of the naira, under a transparent exchange rate regime, would lift many Nigerians out of poverty. Sir Boyo died in November 2019. Since 2019, the parallel market exchange rate has fallen by 61%, inflation has gone up by 39.5%, and the foreign reserves have fluctuated around $40 billion. Similarly, external and domestic debt stocks have increased by 38.6% and 34.8% respectively (from 2019 to March 2022): exchange rate devaluation means that the stock of external debt in terms of the local currency has increased. Boyo wondered why a country that accumulates foreign exchange revenue from oil price appreciation at a near-zero interest rate in its excess crude account would embark on debt financing at high-interest rates. A recent article by The Economist reiterated Boyo’s thoughts: “Nigeria, paradoxically, may find itself in deeper trouble as oil prices rise. Although it exports the stuff, it also burns cash on fuel subsidies, which increase as the oil price does. It issued a $1.25billion seven-year bond in March, though at an expensive interest rate of 8.4%.” Sir Boyo was a singular, consistent advocate of the naira. He ended most of his articles with the phrase, “Save the naira, save Nigerians”. It was an unbeatable record of naira advocacy for nearly two decades. Sadly, no one has taken up the baton since his demise. Foreign exchange management today is in dire need of a clever way out: the CBN would not admit it is lost in the labyrinth having tried several interventions to shore up reserves and increase the flow of foreign exchange in the market. Despite the recent surge in crude and energy prices, the foreign exchange shortage is stifling international transactions. Recently, many commercial banks announced a restriction on international transactions on naira cards to $20 (from $100) per month. For Boyo, unless the CBN discontinues the payments, in naira, to the statutory beneficiaries, the economy will be haunted by the cycle of excess liquidity and devaluation pressures on the naira exchange rate despite increasing oil revenue. We need to open up discussions about the future of the naira: do we want a weak currency to support export trade or a strong currency that transfers purchasing power to the citizens? Do we want to fix or float the exchange rate? What are the considerable welfare implications of either option? As we plan poverty eradication strategies, we must include discussions about the value of the local currency and the role it plays. It is by the devaluation of the currency that the government can confiscate the income of people. By devaluation, not by tax, devaluation! We need to be concerned about the stability of the local currency. Okafor is an economic and business research specialist Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com