Nollywood actor, Ibrahim Chatta, has tackled a controversial Islamic cleric, Saheed Shittu, over the religion Alaafin of Oyo, Oba Lamidi Adeyemi, practised before he joined his ancestors on April 22, 2022, at the Afe Babalola University Teaching Hospital, Ado Ekiti, the capital of Ekiti State. Shittu had slammed the clerics who performed the funeral rites of the late monarch because, according to him, Oba Adeyemi died as a traditionalist and was going to hellfire. However, Chatta, in a video on his verified Instagram account, insisted that the late monarch practised Islam till his final moments at the hospital. The thespian also said it was sinful for Shittu to be magisterial over who is a Muslim or not. Chatta said the late Alaafin believed in the five pillars of Islam and the articles of faith. He said, “Alaafin of Oyo was a practising Muslim who observed five daily solats including Jumat and Eid prayers. “There is a mosque in the Palace. Those in the Palace told me how Alaafin, with a cudgel in hand, woke everyone up in the morning to observe Solat Subhi. If you sleep in the Palace and you didn’t wake up for solat, he will beat you. “Alaafin Oyo observed Ramadan fast. He often bought special dishes for everyone during the holy month. In fact, he had bought the ones for this year’s. During Iftar, Alaafin breaks fast with his queens while those who refused to fast watch as spectators. “During his time at Afe Babalola, Alaafin still ate his Suhur…We will all die…To the cleric who abused me, I want him to know that Baba (Alaafin) confessed Allah as his Lord before he died. The queens with him when he breathed his last said this. He died as a Muslim. Nobody should drag my name. I’m a Muslim, not a troublemaker.” Adeyemi ruled for 52 years before his demise, making him the longest-reigning Alaafin. He died at the age of 83. He loved boxing and was known for his sartorial taste of light-skinned queens. Adeyemi’s death came after the demise of the Soun of Ogbomoso, Jimoh Oyewumi, and the Olubadan of Ibadanland, Saliu Adetunji, who died on December 12, 2021, and January 2, 2022, respectively. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com