An Ogun State-based blogger, Olamilekan Hammed, has sued the Department of State Services and the Nigeria Police Force over what he described as his illegal detention by the security agencies. The PUNCH had reported that the DSS arrested the blogger for allegedly publishing a story on the state governor. The report was said to be on Abiodun’s alleged criminal records in the United States. Hammed was allegedly arrested after he honoured an invitation by the Ogun State Command of the secret police. However, Olamilekan’s lawyer, Festus Ogun, on Tuesday a lawsuit has been filed at the Federal High Court, Abeokuta Division, for the enforcement of his client’s fundamental rights. He said his client in the suit number FHC/AB/FHR/66/22 is seeking the court to urgently intervene to stop the excessive abuse of power and privilege by the Nigerian authorities. This was contained in a statement by Ogun titled, ‘Blogger LAHBASH sues SSS, police and others over continuous illegal detention’. The state read, “We have filed a lawsuit at the Federal High Court, Abeokuta Division, for the enforcement of the fundamental rights of our client, Mr. Olamilekan Hammed Bashiru who was arbitrarily arrested on the 13th of May, 2022 and detained over a publication exposing the dirty criminal past of the Ogun State Governor, Prince Dapo Abiodun. “Since his arrest and unlawful detention, he was neither granted bail, released nor charged to court for any offence despite all efforts by counsel. They have no case against him. He is clearly kept at the mercy of Governor Abiodun who felt threatened by the work of an investigative journalist who was merely doing his job. “In suit number FHC/AB/FHR/66/22, we are urging the court to urgently intervene to stop the excessive abuse of power and privilege by the Nigerian authorities. We are confident the honourable court is the fortress of the oppressed. “Hard as they may try, we are confident tyranny cannot win and we will never give any room for the intimidation of journalists in this country. SSS, Commissioner of Police Ogun State and the Governor cannot continue to act as though they are above the law. Media Rights are sacred.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com