The apex socio-cultural organisation in Igbo, the Ohanaeze Ndigbo Worldwide, has urged the ruling All Progressives Congress and the opposition Peoples Democratic Party and their presidential aspirants to think more about how to foster the nation’s unity than their desperate quest of capturing power. This was as the group appealed to delegates of the two major political parties to elect aspirants of Igbo extraction at their national conventions, saying by so doing, they would champion the ideals of equity, fairness, and justice. The Ohanaeze’s Secretary-General, Chief Okechukwu Isiguzoro, stated this in a statement on Thursday, adding that the only way to halt the ‘imminent’ disintegration of the country was to elect a Nigerian President of Igbo extraction, come 2023. The statement read in part, “Ohanaeze Ndigbo Worldwide insists that only a Nigerian President of Igbo stock from the seven Igbo speaking states including Anioma (in Delta,) and Ikwerre (in Rivers) will halt the disintegration threats to Nigeria’s corporate existence and unity beyond 2023. “The consequence of another Northern presidency after the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), in 2023 will be Nigeria’s doom and reinforcement for the secessionist campaign for Biafra restoration. We ought to have learnt from the lessons of Boko Haram as a political spear for seizing power in 2015 and the aftermath consequences of President Buhari’s failure to end Boko Haram, banditry, and terrorism in the North. “The APC and the PDP National Delegates should jettison money politics and put Nigeria’s unity first by voting for Rt Hon. Chibuike Amaechi (Ikwerre, Rivers) and Gov David Umahi (South-East) in the APC and Governor Nyesom Wike (Ikwerre Rivers) and Peter Obi (South-East) in the PDP. “Never in the history of our country has a particular region produced a presidential candidate and National Chairman at the same time. It will be absolute insanity for the PDP National Chairman, Dr. Ayu, and the APC’s Senator Adamu Abdullahi to plot for northern presidential candidates, as it will spell doom for Nigeria as there will be an election to boycott in the South-East. “This is the last deciding chance to preserve and defend Nigeria’s unity and peace. the APC and the PDP National Delegates should place patriotism above nepotism and save our democracy. We acknowledge the Afenifere and Niger Delta’s support for the 2023 Igbo Presidency. “We are aware of Igbo paid agents and we have not forgotten those Igbo saboteurs who betrayed Dr. Alex Ekwueme in Jos ’98 PDP convention. if there is a repeat of Jos ’98 and northerners emerge the PDP and the APC presidential candidates, Igbos will boycott the 2023 elections.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com