Governor Kayode Fayemi of Ekiti State has formally declared his intention to contest for president in 2023 on the platform of the ruling All Progressives Congress. He made the declaration on Wednesday in Abuja. Fayemi promised to ensure youth empowerment when he becomes the president. He also pledged to “retool the Armed Forces and security agencies”. He also promised decentralisation for the government to be brought closer to the people. The Ekiti State Governor assured other aspirants that “I will adhere to the highest standards of decorum and decency.” He promised to address Nigeria’s security challenge by leading the military on the frontline against bandits and terrorists. The governor said that he decided to join the race after consultations with political associates, traditional rulers and APC critical stakeholders. He said, “As a people, make the choices that will ensure that our nation is able to prosper in peace, unity, safety and security in the comity of nations. “At trying times such as we were traversing as a nation which is also being witnessed on a global scale could, if properly managed, be converted into transformative moments. “This will allow both for the achievement of a fundamental national reset and a major leap forward in our affairs, as a people, I believe that if guided by the right leadership coalition, Nigerians are determined not to allow tough times to deter them or to lose sight of the gains of a better country. “However, after careful consideration of where we are as a nation and the many perspectives which are emerging about the challenges, old and new, which we must gird our loins to tackle and transcend. “I am convinced that my entry into the race to bear the standard of the APC will offer our members and Nigerians the opportunity to examine competing visions for national rebirth in the best interest of our country. “And it is on the foundation of a clear vision accompanied by a carefully thought out programme of action that I present my candidature. “I do so fully convinced on the basis of what I have experienced, heard, and seen about the demands of the times and the aspirations of our people.” The event was attended by many dignitaries including a former Governor of Ogun State, Ibikunle Amosun; former Senate President, Ameh Ebute; former Ekiti State Deputy Governor, Prof. Modupe Adelabu; and many traditional rulers. About 12 aspirants have so far joined the APC presidential race. Some of them are Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, Mr Rotimi Amaechi, the Minister of Transportation and Senator Rochas Okorocha. Others are Governor Yahaya Bello of Kogi State, the Minister of Labour and Productivity, Dr Chris Ngige; Minister of State for Education, Mr Chukwuemeka Nwajuba; Governor David Umuahi of Ebonyi State and Mr Adams Oshiomhole. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com