Panic gripped residents of Abakaliki metropolis, Ebonyi State, after a 26-year-old lady, Ugochukwu Nworie, was allegedly raped to death. PUNCH Metro gathered that the incident happened at the Hope-in Hotel, Abakaliki, the Ebonyi State capital, on Monday. It was learnt that the victim arrived at the hotel in the company of some young men late Monday night. Sources said the lady was found dead in the room after the door was opened on Tuesday morning with her legs, hands and mouth tied up. The Ebonyi State Police Command confirmed the incident on Thursday. The state Police Public Relations Officer, Mrs Loveth Odah, said the Divisional Police Officer of Kpirikpiri Police Division in the Abakaliki metropolis also confirmed that it happened at the Hope-in Hotel, Abakaliki. Odah said, “The DPO reported that the incident happened while on a routine check on the hotel. A room not accounted for was discovered. “So, the DPO decided to enquire from the receptionist, who told him that the guests in the room were unknown to him. “Efforts to open the room proved abortive until he requested a spare key to open the door, only to discover the lifeless body of the lady, naked and her legs, hands and mouth tied to the bed in the room.” The police spokesperson said the state Commissioner of Police, Aliyu Garba, had directed a thorough investigation into the incident. She revealed that efforts were on to arrest and prosecute perpetrators of the crime to serve as a deterrent to others. “Preliminary investigation indicated that the lady was gang-raped, as more than 12 used condoms were discovered in the room. “Investigation is still ongoing and we will continue to update the media and the public as we unravel more details,” she added. She said the corpse had been deposited in a morgue.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com