A dentist, Dr Funmi Adeniyi, has urged Nigerians on the need to go for regular screenings, saying this will help in the early detection and treatment of oral cancer. The expert who is also the Founder/Clinical Director of Luxe Dental said this in a statement. The statement partly reads, “April is Oral Cancer Awareness Month; a time when dental professionals and stakeholders globally come together to raise awareness about the dangers of oral cancer and the progress that has been made in combating it. “Oral cancer is defined as cancer that occurs in any of the mouth’s components. The lips, gums, tongue, inner lining of the cheeks, the roof of the mouth, and floor of the mouth are all possible sites for oral cancer. In summary, oral cancer, also known as oral cavity cancer, is cancer that develops on the inside of the mouth. “Oral cancer has some warning indications as well as potential causes. Here are some danger factors to be aware of; Tobacco or alcohol use regularly, Human Papillomavirus infection, and gender. Recent studies show that men are twice as likely as women to develop mouth cancer. “The World Health Organisation reports that about 3.5 billion people worldwide suffer from oral infection and poor oral health. Oral cancer usually manifests itself as a persistent sore inside the mouth that does not heal on its own or as red or white spots inside the mouth. Oral cancer can be prevented when an individual quits smoking tobacco products including shisha, consumes alcohol in moderation, consumes a diet rich in leafy greens, avoids excessive sun exposure to the lips, maintains good dental hygiene and visits a dentist at least twice a year for cleanings.” Adeniyi added that a healthy life required good oral health, healthy mouth, teeth, gum, and breath. “Luxe Dental Clinic advocates for routine dental check-up and early detection to reduce the incidence of oral cancer. Oral cancer screenings are quick and easy, it only takes a few minutes to have your dentist check for any suspicious sores in your mouth,” she said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com