Borno State Governor, Babagana Zulum, on Thursday, said he has received offers to become the running mate of some key presidential aspirants and ultimately become Nigeria’s Vice President in 2023. He, however, said he rejected the offers to complete the works he started in the North-East state. Zulum stated this when he was announced as the winner of the All Progressives Congress governorship primaries ahead of the forthcoming general elections in 2023. The don said, “Let me reveal with apologies, that some close associates of key Presidential aspirants have sent me offers for the position of running mate, as possible Vice President, depending on the outcome of the APC Presidential primaries by the weekend. “I have thought deeply about these offers because becoming Vice President is considered attractive. I have thought about all the powers and privileges of being VP. “I can see the honour of presiding over meetings attended by Governors and Ministers, and the privilege of having a Presidential Jet at one’s disposal. I can see the honour of Presidential receptions within and outside Nigeria. “However, I have asked myself, that should I get the opportunity to become VP and raise my political profile, what happens to all our ongoing works for the people of Borno State? “We have built more than 10,000 houses, and currently more of such and reconstructing existing ones, for ongoing resettlement of our people. We have resettled more than 20 communities so far. “Yet, thousands of our fellow citizens are still homeless and in desperate need of food, water, and healthcare. “We have adopted a development plan that we are already implementing. “I have asked myself, what happens to all these plans that I am central to, which are helping to fast track our recovery in Borno State? “I came to the conclusion that while a chance to become Vice President could benefit my profile as an individual, becoming reelected as Governor of Borno State has the potential of more assurance of benefit to the good people of Borno State. “I, therefore, say that while I thank those who may be considering me for the position of VP, I prefer to stay back and work drastically for the people of Borno State because for me as a citizen of Borno State, working with others to hastily rebuild Borno State is the most urgent need and it is beyond any aspiration.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com