Nollywood actor, Alexx Ekubo, has spoken out against the rising issue of jungle justice in the country. This comes on the heels of two lynching incidents that went viral last week. Deborah Yakubu, a 200-level student at the Sheu Shagari College of Education in Sokoto, was lynched to death on Thursday, May 12, after allegations of blasphemy were levelled against her. On Monday, David Sunday, a sound engineer, was also burnt to death by motorcyclists after a disagreement over fares in Lekki, Lagos. Posting a video of Sunday’s widow, Grace, via his Instagram page on Wednesday, the actor decried the growing trend of Nigerians resorting to mob action and violence instead of allowing the law to take its due cause. “I woke up this morning with so much pain in my heart. Nigeria, how did we get here? There is so much anger and frustration in the land. Almost everyone is two seconds away from turning into a werewolf. “Please I am begging, this #JungleJustice trend needs to stop. Today is Deborah and David, tomorrow it can be me, you, or someone close to home, take a minute and think about it. “Like how are you going about your business, and suddenly you stop to mob, lynch and set another human being ablaze, in the public glare of everyone. You need to be evaluated in a mental institution, arrested, and locked away permanently, you are a menace to society and not fit to coexist. Who made you judge, jury, and executor?” He wrote in the caption. Quoting the Nigerian Constitution, Ekubo also stated, “Section 33(1) of the Nigerian constitution provides that ‘every person has right to life and no one should be deprived intentionally of his life.” “More often than not, innocent people are the victims of jungle justice. We are still trying to find #JusticeForDeborah now we also seeking #JusticeForDavid, we can’t keep losing Nigerian youths to senseless killings.” He further urged lawmakers to enact “stringent laws to abolish jungle justice,” as it was “barbaric, inhumane and uncivilised.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com