In March, 14 hunters reportedly killed a hippopotamus at the Kwoi River, close to Bajimba village, in the Gassol Local Government Area of Taraba State, and shared the meat, an action which prompted the state government to declare them wanted. The Commissioner for Environment, Alhaji Lawan Ibrahim, tells JUSTIN TYOPUUSU what is being done to protect wildlife Recently, the Taraba State Government ordered the arrest of some hunters who killed a hippopotamus. Why did the government take that decision? The hippopotamus belongs to the category of wild animals. You know that they survive and move in riverine areas. So, when the water in the area dried off, it left the hippopotamus vulnerable and when we heard about it, we drafted some of our personnel there who went and brought back the report. We immediately wrote a letter to the Gashaka/Gumti National Park located in the state, notifying it of the presence of a hippopotamus disturbing people around the area and destroying their crops. People in that area do dry season farming, so we wrote to the national park to come and handle the situation. The national park equally wrote to their head office, but before they got a reply, the people in the area, who are into dry season farming, ran out of patience because of the level of destruction of their crops by the hippopotamus. Before we knew it, we were informed that the hippopotamus had been killed. That is why the state government ordered the killers’ arrest. Why did the state government have to write to the national park, does it lack the powers to handle such a situation? No, we wanted to liaise with the national park because our principal, Governor Darius Dickson Ishaku, was outside the country. You know how the civil service operates – the bureaucracy would have taken some time and we wanted to act fast. Have the arrested hunters been charged? No, but they will be charged very soon. There have been campaigns against wildlife poaching. Does the state government have any such campaigns against the killing of wild animals? Yes, there is. We have the Department of Wildlife. Our staff members do go on patrols around our reserves to arrest people who kill wild animals. This is another way of preventing people from the rampant killing of animals. Don’t you think a serious government would have swung into action using the department to get the hippopotamus? You know that a hippopotamus is not a small animal. It is different from an antelope, even a buffalo is not a small animal. You must consider a lot of things before you go for it and that was why we made efforts to liaise with the national park for the operation. Can you explain what informed the government’s decision against the killing of wild animals in the state? The campaign became necessary because we must preserve our wild animals for the future; otherwise our children and the generation yet unborn will not get to know these animals. Apart from the particular hippopotamus that was killed, are you aware of the existence of any other in the state that tourists can catch a glimpse of? We don’t have any other and that was why we were trying to engage the national park to come and take the hippo. They would have had it on a silver platter but they delayed. The delayed response time was what led to the killing of the hippo by the villages, whose farms were being destroyed by the hippo. Apart from the hippopotamus, are there other animals in the state that can serve as tourist attractions? Yes, we have them. If you visit the Gashaka-Gumti National Park, you will see them in abundance. Apart from the national park, do you have them elsewhere too? No, most of the animals are hiding in the caves. They come out only at night because people have outnumbered them and also the dynamism of society has scared them away. You see many people eat snakes these days, quite unlike in those days when we had so many bush animals. Are there games reserves in Taraba State? Yes, there are many reserves in Taraba State. We have them in almost all the 16 local government areas of the state. We have in Bakin Dutse in the Ardo-Kola Local Government Area. We have in Bali, Zing, Takum, Wukari , Donga, Kurmi and many other places. Are the reserves revenue-generating outfits? Yes. When the trees are matured, we sell them and generate revenue. Is there any law in place to stop people from hunting wild animals? Yes, there are laws. That was what brought about the Department of Wildlife. Has there been prosecution in recent times? We have a legal officer, who keeps the record, and he is in a better position to tell you that, but I can tell you that we have successfully prosecuted offenders of the law regulating wildlife activities in the state. What penalties are in place for various offenders? There are laws guiding forestry, hunting and others, and penalties are spelt out accordingly. What measures are in place to check climate change issues? We have put in place some measures to check climate change, and part of the measures is our tree planting campaign. We have embarked on deliberate afforestation. Almost all the reserves that we have are geared towards that. And some non-governmental organisations have collaborated with communities to plant trees. We have been able to minimise the rate of deforestation in Taraba State from 90 per cent to 40 per cent. When we came in, logging was rampant, but we have been able to tame the ugly act. When I resumed, I wrote a memo to the governor requesting funds to curtail it. He approved and gave us money and we quickly got to work. Before now, it was common for one to see between 50 and 70 trucks loaded with wood leaving the state through the Mallum route, but we have stopped it now. But some people may argue that the number of rosewood in the state has been depleted. What can you say about this? It is not true. The wood is still there, but we stopped loggers from crossing the River Taraba to go get the wood, not that the trees are not there. We have put in place a task force that is doing the work. Are there efforts by your ministry to replant the trees? Yes, there is a concerted effort to that effect. Last year, we observed the World Environment Day with a target to restore the ecosystem. We distributed around 35,000 seedlings to people to plant. We have planted some around the university as part of efforts to restore the ecosystem. What about bush burning? Bush burning is also prohibited. We have enlightened the communities, including the emirs, district heads and village heads. We told them to keep a watch on that and that anybody caught in that act should be arrested and that drastically minimised bush burning. If you see people burning something now, maybe they are clearing their farms. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com