A former Governor of Anambra State in the defunct Second Republic, Senator Jim Nwobodo, has urged the candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party for the 2023 presidential election, former Vice President Atiku Abubakar, to ensure that he brings back former members of the opposition party. Nwobodo, while reacting to the election of Abubakar as candidate of the PDP at the national convention of the party held in Abuja on Saturday, said the ex-VP should fulfil his promise of rebuilding the PDP as contained in his acceptance speech. The elder statesman, in a statement he issued on Sunday, titled ‘Jim Nwobodo Congratulates Alhaji Atiku Abubakar,’ congratulated the National Chairman of the PDP, Iyorchia Ayu; and former President of the Senate/ Chairman, 2022 Peoples Democratic Party National Convention Organising Committee, Senator David Mark, for spearheading a successful primary. The statement read, “I congratulate Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, Waziri Adamawa, on his resounding victory as the flagbearer of the Peoples Democratic Party at yesterday’s primary. Congratulations to our National Chairman, Dr. Iyorcha Ayu, for his leadership in achieving a successful, transparent and peaceful primary election. I also congratulate the Convention Committee Chairman, Senator David Mark; and my Governor, Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi and his deputy. “I congratulate all the other aspirants who contested with Atiku for their spirit of sportsmanship and appeal to them to rally round the flagbearer, as this success is success for all of them. “Atiku’s victory is victory for the PDP and victory for Nigeria in general. Atiku has the ability, the temperament and the tenacity to restore the unity, security and economy of Nigeria without which a country does not exist. “I encourage him to follow through with his acceptance speech, to reach out to all the aggrieved members of our party who left the party and bring them back to the PDP family.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com