Former President Olusegun Obasanjo, on Wednesday, at a Global Crusade organised by the Deeper Life Bible Church in Abeokuta said except Nigerians are not honest with the situation of things in the country, they will admit all is not well with the country. He said Nigeria needed men of integrity now. Obasanjo, however, expressed optimism that all would be well with Nigeria regardless of the country’s present situation and condition. He urged Nigerians to have faith in God, saying that Nigeria needs men of integrity to pilot the country’s affairs. According to Obasanjo, Nigeria and the entire world require God’s visitation considering the situation of things. Quoting from the Bible, he said Noah stood out in his time and Job, whom he said God described as a man who feared God,  shunned evil and of great integrity. He said, “If you consider what is going on in our cities, our states, our country, our region of West Africa, our continent and indeed our globe, our world requires crusades of this nature. “Some people accused us, Christians, of ‘religiosity’ without spirituality. Yes, that has been the position of the world even in the time of Jesus Christ, but should we lose hope? No. “There is no time in the world where things have been bad that it is not the children of God that stood out. “Nigeria needs such men of integrity at this present moment. “I believe that because of these kinds of men and women of such virtue in Nigeria, God will open his eyes and have mercy on this country. “Unless those who don’t want to be honest with themselves will say that all is well, but if we trust in God and believe in Jesus Christ, all will be well. “Children of God, whatever our situation may be, whatever the condition, let us have faith in God, and all will be well.” The church’s General Superintendent, Pastor William Kumuyi, who had earlier paid a visit to the former president, prayed to God to grant him many more years to contribute to the country’s progress. Kumuyi stated that his visit was to show respect to Obasanjo and invite him to the crusade where he could share his words of wisdom with the people and the global community. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com