Two sitting senators from Ondo State, Ayo Akinyelure, and Nicholas Tofowomo, have lost their bid to return to the upper chamber of the National Assembly. They lost in the primary of the Peoples Democratic Party held on Monday in the state. Akinyelure is representing Ondo Central Senatorial District while Tofowomo represents Ondo South Senatorial District. In the primary, Akinyelure came second in the primary, held in Akure, the state capital, having polled 58 votes behind Mr Ifedayo Adedipe, SAN, who scored 82 votes. Tofowomo scored 74 votes behind a former Deputy Governor of the state, Mr Agboola Ajayi, who polled 78 votes. The exercise was held in Okitipupa, in the Okitipupa Local Government Area of the state. In the Ondo North Senatorial District, Mr Adetokunbo Modupe, defeated his opponent, Mr Foluso Adefemi, with 124 votes while the latter polled 93 votes. Speaking with journalists after the election, Akinyelure attributed his loss to the influence of the former Governor Olusegun Mimiko who did not support him. Akinyelure said, “As a ranking Senator and with all I have done for them in Ondo Central Senatorial District, the three ad hoc delegates that favour Olusegun Mimiko, they gave instructions for them to vote me out. I am happy about this but I know my God will never fail. “I know what I am talking about. We have six local governments in the central, by the grace of God I am still a sitting Senator. The election was so transparent but I know that with the volume of what I have done for the Ondo Central Senatorial District, I did not expect to be paid this way. But I have a destiny that nobody can stop.” The winner of the Ondo Central primary, Adedile, said it was the first time he would be contesting for elective office, calling all members of the party to support him to win the main election in 2023. He said, “The exercise has been peaceful and very free. It is the PDP that has won and not Ifedayo. It is the party that conducts a free and fair election. My fellow aspirants should see this as a vote for all of us.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com