A civil rights advocacy group, Human Rights Writers Association of Nigeria, on Thursday, condemned the gruesome murder of an indigene of Adamawa State, Harira Jibril, and her four kids by gunmen in Anambra State. HURIWA also condemned the rash of killings of 50 young boys in Borno State by terrorists and 12 persons in Katsina by Fulani terrorists. The Rights group said the patience of Nigerians is running out with the current patently incompetent Federal Government. HURIWA, in a statement by its National Coordinator, Comrade Emmanuel Onwubiko, said security agents must go after the perpetrators of the heinous crimes in Borno, Katsina and Anambra states. The group, however, warned that the killing of the Adamawa woman who had lived all her life in Anambra should not be ethnicised or politicised by the fifth columnists who always want to trigger violent inter-tribal and inter-religious conflicts. Onwubiko urged the governors of Northern states to ensure that all citizens from all parts of Nigeria living amongst them are not harmed in any way. He said criminals are “callous bastards” who don’t differentiate their targets as they have also killed many Anambra indigenes and South-Easterners including the female Igbo soldier, the beheading of the Anambra legislators and hundreds of other Igbos and so HURIWA condemned conflicts entrepreneurs such as the Northern Youths Coalition who are baying for blood at the time that all hands must be on the deck to hunt and haunt the terrorists who are public enemies. Gunmen recently beheaded Okechukwu Okoye, the lawmaker representing Governor Chukwuma Soludo’s constituency in the Anambra State House of Assembly. Two about-to-wed soldiers, Master Warrant Officer Audu Linus (retired) and Private Gloria Matthew, from Imo State, were also beheaded on April 30, 2022, days to their traditional wedding. Gunmen in September 2021, gruesomely killed Dr. Chike Akunyili, the widower of the late Director-General of the National Agency for Food and Drug Administration and Control, Dora Akunyili, in Anambra State. There are scores of killings of Igbos in the South-East by the same rampaging gunmen. Onwubiko said, “The killing of Harira Jibril and her kids are condemnable and unjustifiable. We, at HURIWA, condemn it in the strongest term and urge security agents to fish out the perpetrators regardless of who they are or their motives. “However, HURIWA will want to alert the public not to allow fifth columnists and mischievous characters not to twist the incident and give it an ethnic coloration which is not true as the vicious gunmen have killed numerous Igbo sons and daughters even recently. “The terrorism in the north and the fresh killings of over 65 farmers in Katsina and Borno states are not different from the killings in the South-West, the South-South, Anambra and the other four states in the South-East plagued by insecurity. “The truth is that terror has been unleashed on Nigeria and Nigerians and government at the top most levels in Abuja is silent, in bed with the terrorists or lack the wherewithal to confront these marauders. “Nigeria is facing a pure terrorism war and not an ethno-religious conflict.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com