Some bandits on Tuesday abducted students, travellers along the Birnin Gwari highway, in the Birnin Gwari Local Government Area of Kaduna State. It was learnt that the hoodlums also burnt eight vehicles in which the students were travelling to write exams for the School of Health Technology, in Makarfi, scheduled to hold at the Kaduna State University in the metropolis. The Public Relations Officer of the Birnin Gwari Emirate Progressive Union, Idris Saidu, who stated this in a statement, said the bandits laid siege to three different locations on the highway forcing motorists to make U-turns. According to the spokesman, those who are not lucky fell into the trap set by the bandits and were subsequently abducted. The statement read, “Scores of travellers and students who were to write examinations for admission into the School of Health, Makarfi affiliated to the Kaduna State University were abducted. “One of  our officials, Abubakar Haruna Babajo, escaped. He said eight vehicles were set ablaze by the bandits after abducting all the passengers and they were able to escape.” “BEPU, therefore, advised intending travellers to either suspend their journey or use other possible alternative routes as large number of bandits are currently stationed on the road at three different locations.” “This advice should not be taken for granted for security of lives and properties of our people. “Due to the blockage of the road, some of our students who are to attend entrance exams at School of Health, in Makarfi this morning could not make it, while some of them have been abducted. “Through the intervention of Malam Mu’azu Idris the school authority has agreed to reschedule the date for the exams to another date indefinitely.” “We call on the Local Government and especially political leaders and Representatives to be drawing the attention of higher authorities on the deteriorating security situation along our major roads and rural communities which are presently being taken over by bandits and other terrorist groups that were dislodged from other parts of the country and beyond,” the statement added. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com