Uche Onyekwelu is the Chief Executive Officer of Stuch Beddings. She tells TOFARATI IGE about her business What is your educational background? For my elementary education, I attended Alade Nursery and Primary School in Ilorin, Kwara State. I went on to Modelak Science College, also in Ilorin, for my secondary education. I later bagged a Higher National Diploma in Estate Management from the Kwara State Polytechnic. Do you have any corporate work experience? I once worked with a real estate firm for three months and resigned to focus on my business. When and how did you venture into this business? I started the business while undergoing the National Youth Service Corps scheme. I recall that I went to buy some dresses for myself and the shop owner asked if I could help him sell some bed sheets that he imported. I agreed immediately as I was looking for a business to do at that time. What services does your business offer? We sew, iron, package and deliver new bed sheets to our customers across the country. We also have wholesale deals for resellers and teach them how they can sell out fast and make extra income for themselves. What motivated you to start your own business? I was born into a family of 10 as the first child. The fear of what would happen to my siblings if my parents could no longer provide for us motivated me to start a business early. How much was your initial capital and how did you raise it? I started the business with just N10,000, and I saved it from my NYSC allowance. What is the difference between you and others in your line of business? I have a very good relationship with our customers. We always listen to their feedback and always ensure that we deliver quality services. What major challenges do you face in the course of running your business? The major challenges are insufficient power supply, unavailability of a structured transport system that can be used to move goods inter-state, inflation, and the ever skyrocketing exchange rate. Those factors make it quite difficult to do business in this part of the world. How do you find customers? We do that primarily through social media platforms such as Facebook and Instagram. How do you advertise the business? I advertise the business online by creating relatable contents, running sponsored ads and posting clear pictures of our products. We also get referrals from satisfied customers. Have you ever thought of quitting and starting something else? I can honestly say I have got to the last bus stop when it comes to choosing a business to do. Before I started this business, I had previously invested time and money in wire works and I also worked as a make-up artist. I knew what I did not like about those businesses, and that guided my decision when I chose to go into sales of bedding. At this point, I can never quit this business. I will only add more businesses, so that my empire will keep expanding. How profitable has the businesses been since you started? I believe all businesses can be profitable. It just depends on how one markets one’s products and services to one’s audience. What future do you envisage for your business? I see the brand becoming a global one in the not too distant future. I want it to become a household name. I also want it to be known as the biggest bedding business both within and outside Africa. I want people to know my name as they know that of great businessmen like (Aliko) Dangote. We are already making waves with our bedding, bathrobes, towels, pyjamas and even our scented candles that were launched last year. We are currently working on introducing a new line of business to the market. What kind of support did you receive from your family and friends when you started? Most of them have patronised me and supported my business in different ways. I have been blessed with supportive family members and friends. What will you say is the most influential factor in your business success? That will be hard and smart work, as well as consistency. What advice do you have for young people who want to go into your line of business? It is a profitable business. Just ensure that you market it rigorously so that you maintain top of mind awareness in your customers. How do you handle difficult customers? I handle them with patience.  We listen and empathise with them while we try to provide the solutions they seek.  All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com