Niger State Governor, Abubakar Bello, has emerged the winner of the All Progressives Congress primary election for the Niger North Senatorial District. According to Adamu Abdulkarim, who announced the result on Sunday, the governor scored 335 votes to beat the incumbent, Senator Aliyu Sabi, who scored seven votes. In Sokoto State, a former governor of the state, Senator Aliyu Wamakko, has again emerged as the candidate of the APC for the Sokoto North Senatorial District. The former governor emerged alongside the new entrants into the party. The incumbent Senator representing Sokoto South, Senator Danbaba Dambuwa, and Alhaji Ibrahim Lamido, alongside Wamakko, emerged unopposed. While declaring the results, the Primary Committee, led by its Secretary, Wale Ojo, and member, Dr. Tona Famadewa, said Wamakko, the sole aspirant, picked the party’s ticket unopposed following affirmation by 420 delegates from across eight local government areas of the zone. The lawmaker, who is also the leader of the APC in the state, emerged for a third term in the Senate on the party’s platform. The motion to endorse Wamakko’s emergence through affirmation was moved by one of the delegates, Babangida Dantsoho, and seconded by Aliyu Sabo from Kware Local Government Area. In Kwara State, two senators, Ashiru Oyelola representing Kwara South and Alhaji Umar Sadiq representing Kwara North, secured their return ticket to contest on the platform of APC in the 2023 election. Ashiru scored 158 votes to beat his close rival, Raheem Ajuloopin, who recorded 154 votes. Also, Umar, representing Kwara North, won a re-election ticket on the platform of the APC by defeating Mr Taoheed Toyin with 202 votes to 75 votes. In Kaduna State, a former state Commissioner for Planning and Budget and Chief of Staff to Governor Nasir El-Rufai, Muhammad Abdullahi, emerged the senatorial candidate of the APC in Kaduna Central after his two opponents, Usman Sani and Rabi Salisu, withdrew from the contest. The Returning Officer, Mohammed Bayero, said there were 405 delegates from the seven local government areas that make up Kaduna Central. According to him, 396 delegates showed up for the election and all were accredited. At the end of the poll, Muhammad Abdullahi scored 388 votes, while eight votes were invalid. In Rivers State, immediate past Nigeria’s Ambassador to the Netherlands, Oji Ngofa, emerged as Rivers South-East APC senatorial candidate. Chairman of the Electoral Committee, Dr. Victoria Nyeche, said, “329 votes cast in favour of the sole aspirant for this primary election, Rivers South-East senatorial district, with six voided votes.” Asita Asita won the election in Rivers West, while Bisi Nwankwo was declared the winner in Rivers East. A senatorial aspirant of the APC in Ondo North Senatorial District, Chief Alex Ajipe has rejected the results of the primary election in the district held on Saturday in Owo, the headquarters of Owo Local Government Area of the state. Ajipe, who faulted the process, said the delegates list used for the election was a fake one and not the one approved by the Independent National Electoral Commission. Mr Jide Ipinsagba was declared winner of the primary. Speaking with journalists on Sunday in Akure, the state capital, the APC chieftain alleged that the process that led to the primary election which produced Ipinsagba as the senatorial candidate of the party was faulty. He called on the party to cancel the election and organise another one in the interest of all the aspirants. He said, “The delegates list that we were supposed to use for the election was changed and fake list was used. “We saw strange market women, artisan and traders coming into the venue to vote, they were presented to us as delegates, this is very ridiculous to a democratic process.”  He however expressed his readiness to approach the appeal panel of the party to seek redress over the manipulation, saying he had a lot documentary for evidence. Also speaking, the Director-General of Alex Ajipe Campaign Organisation, Mr Tolu Babaleye, said the team would utilise all internal mechanisms of the party to challenge the process. “ If the appeal panel does not do anything to the matter, we will approach the court to get justice. But the party should act on it so that we would not have Zamfara issue here. “This is an injustice, we have the original list of the delegates, the certified true copy of the list is with us. The election is far from being free and far,” he said.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com