It’s election time again and we have started receiving chain prayers for Nigeria to be passed around without breaking them. In religious houses, different prayers are being said for Nigeria towards the election. In one of the orthodox churches, the prayer for a distressed Nigeria is said now more fervently. Is it not a familiar ring? In other words, have we not gone through all this before? Where are we today? It was the Bishop of the Roman Catholic Diocese of Sokoto, Mattew Hassan Kukah, who captured our laughable strategy for building a prosperous nation when he said, “After independence, in order to build a great nation, each country went to work. But in Nigeria, after independence, our people went to pray and fast.” “So, while we were praying, Malaysia came here and took our palm seedlings and built a great factory of it. While we were praying, Singapore went into investment in technology. While we were praying, India went into ICT. While we were praying, China went to massive industrialisation. While we were shouting Allah Alakuba! (sic) UAE went into massive infrastructural development. While we were binding and casting Lucifer, Japan went into technological development. While we were speaking in tongues, Denmark went into education of her citizens. While we were mounting big speakers in our places of worship, USA was mounting man on the moon. After our prayers, God, being a wise God decided to reward us according to our labour.” Instead of propagating a message that enlightens people about democracy and elections and our roles in it we are back to spreading prayers. And if you ask some of those composing the chain prayers whether they have voter’s card they will be speechless. They are not ready to be part of the electoral process. But they believe their prayers can influence the few who are. Even the clergyman who has been rallying worshippers for prayers for Nigeria’s election does not have his own voter’s card either. Neither do many of his followers. Even among those who have many are not ready to go to polling booths to vote. To them having a voter’s card is just one of those processes the government has made them do. Some have already given up entirely and nothing can change their mind. To them, their votes won’t count. The election winner has already been predetermined. Another reason for others is that ballot boxes may be snatched. So theirs is to stay at home and use prayers to “counteract” it. Don’t get me wrong. Prayers do work. But heaven helps those who help themselves. Someone said as powerful as God is, he cannot multiply zero. This means we have to bring something forward for him to multiply. That was why when Jesus asked his disciples about how to feed the five thousand people, the disciples didn’t tell him that they should offer only prayers to feed them. He asked them to bring what they had. And they brought five loaves of bread and two fish. These were then multiplied. There is no magic to a virile democracy than for us to bring something—and ourselves forward. We can also come out to be elected. In many developed countries, they don’t even believe in religion. Some are atheists yet they are continually developing and seeing to the betterment of their country. It’s what those who probably don’t believe in God produce that those who say they believe in God depend on. Does it then mean there is no God or that he does not answer our prayers? Far from that. It was Jesus himself who said that the children of this world are smarter than the children of the kingdom. This means that our fixation on having Abraham as our father has made us laid-back. It is part of what has kept us from using our God-given talent. That is why someone who has not written even a CV or sent one job application out goes to a prayer vigil in the hope that God will give them a job. That’s why a student who should sit down to study will do prayer and fasting in the belief that that is the way to pass their exam. Some even come fasting in the exam hall. And when they faint from low blood sugar, they accuse their “village people” of being responsible. God does answer prayers. And he has long answered Nigeria’s. That is why the country still exists today! But he does not need to be bothered when he has given us all we need as humans to succeed. He has given us a brain to think wisely and to vote wisely. Is reciting prayers the answer to our inability to have a stable power supply? Is prayer a strategy to tackle our insecurity challenges? Will prayers build infrastructure? Will prayers make food affordable? Will the growing number of out-of-school children reduce when we spend all our nights in night vigils? Fiddlesticks! Who will wake us up to reality? Yet we don’t know how powerful we are as the electorate. We must realise that our vote does count. And that is why a politician will pull out all the stops to get that vote. The upcoming elections are not a matter of prayers. Resorting to prayers alone cannot reverse engineer a successful democracy that leads to a prosperous nation. We need to work at it. Democracy is participatory and we must embrace it in its fullness. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com