A plumber working with Hilton Hotel, Ile-Ife, Osun State, Kazeem Oyetunde, has said he and the manager, Adeniyi Aderogba, were told that the corpse of late Timothy Adegoke was being taken to the mortuary by Roheem Adedoyin on the day the body was dumped in the bush. Oyetunde, under cross-examination by the lead prosecution counsel, M. Omosun, on Thursday, also said he queried Roheem who is the Managing Director of the Hotel when he diverted the vehicle to the area where the body was dumped after they had removed the corpse from the room on his instruction. He further explained that he alongside Aderogba followed Roheem to room 305 where Adegoke had lodged and saw him lying dead on the bed. He said Roheem later left them at the hotel, saying he wanted to inform the police of the incident, but returned late in the evening and when asked why it took him so long, the MD told them that the police asked him to write reports about the incident and that they instructed him to take the corpse to the mortuary. He admitted that he and Aderogba assisted the MD to carry the corpse into a Hilux van driven by Roheem, whom he said instead of driving towards the mortuary, drove towards Ede road, and when he asked him why he did not take the body to the mortuary as instructed, told them that he was afraid of the police. He also said only Roheem took the corpse out of the vehicle and took it to where it was dumped in the bush and denied conspiring with anyone to kill the deceased, adding that he did not take an oath of confidentiality Also, the supervisor in charge of the security at the Hilton Hotel where the deceased slept on the day he died, Lawrence Oluwole, during cross-examination by Omosun, said he only checked the record book of the receptionist on duty and the rooms that were without guests on the day the incident happened. Oluwole added he did not also check room 305 where the late Adegoke slept and did not know the deceased in person. According to him, one security man, whom he could not recall properly was at the entrance to the hotel on November 6 when he visited the hotel. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com