The leader of aggrieved members of All Progressives Congress in Kano, Haruna Danzago, has again dragged the APC state Chairman, Abdullahi Abbas, and Secretary, Ibrahim Sarina, before the Federal High Court in Kano. In the fresh legal battle, Danzago is praying for an interlocutory injunction to restrain Abbas and Sarina from parading themselves as the Kano State APC Chairman and Secretary respectively. Danzago’s fresh court action came a few hours after the Supreme Court’s verdict that dismissed the G7 appeal against the Governor Abdullahi Ganduje’s supported APC leadership in Kano. While the legal tussle that terminated on Friday at the supreme court bordered on ward and local government congresses of the party, the new case is challenging the legality of the party’s chairman and secretary to remain in office. When the matter came up for hearing before Justice A. M. Liman on Friday, counsel for the plaintiff, Christopher Oshomeghe, asked the court to grant the application on the basis that both state officials did not meet the constitutional requirement of the party before contesting the positions. The plaintiff argued that contrary to the provision and rules guiding the party, Abbas and Sarina failed to resign from their positions as caretaker committee before contesting the substantive positions during the state congress held on October 16, 2021. But counsel for the first and second defendants, Chief O. Offiong SAN, said his clients had not been served with the court papers. Justice Liman ordered service of the court papers on the defendants by substituted means while he adjourned the matter till May 11, 2022. Danzago, who enjoyed the full support of the G7 APC members and loyalists under the leadership of Senator representing Kano central, Malam Ibrahim Shekarau, participated in an organised parallel congresses at local and ward levels against Ganduje’s supported group under the leadership of Abbas. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com