The Nigeria Business Disability Network has called on the private sector to ensure an inclusive workplace. Speaking at the year 2022 Nigeria Diversity and Inclusion Conference, titled, ‘Eliminating barriers against inclusive workplaces in the private sector, Founder, Project Enable Africa, Mr Olusola Owonikoko, explained that the NBDN brought together private sector actors to drive disability inclusion in the workplace. Owonikoko said, ‘‘We want to stress the need for corporate organisations to be disability-inclusive in their workplaces, policies, processes, platforms, physical and digital platforms. The programme was for private sector organisations to come together to share what is working and what is not working, their challenges. Our role in Project Enable Africa is training persons with disability and to make them available in an employment pool where government, corporate organisations can recruit from.’’ Executive Sectary, National Commission for Persons with Disability, M James Lalu, said there was a need to build barriers against the stigma that persons with disability were confronted with. ‘‘The national commission for disability will continue to work with this forum to sustain this project. Persons with disability are smart and hardworking but one of the challenges they face at workplace is discrimination.’’ Also, Disability Inclusion Consult, World Bank, Dr Adebukola Adebayo, said, ‘‘Before, we used to struggle to engage with the private sector. We appreciate the fact that in our time, we can see the private sector converge for disability. If we must eliminate barriers in the workplace, we must put in place leadership commitment to abide by PWD  and all entry-point barriers must be removed during the process of recruitment.’’ Head of Sustainability, Access Bank, Omobolanle Victor-Laniyan, maintained that Nigeria was in the infant state of promoting a coordinated, comprehensive approach towards disability issues and inclusion in Nigeria. ‘‘It is a day set aside for accessible and inclusion for people with disability to educate one another on inclusion. Respecting the rights of people with disability is important.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com