8,038.70MW unutilised due to gas, water problems – Discos The headquarters of the Central Bank of Nigeria, the Nigerian Army as well as the Federal Ministry of Finance, among others, suffered blackouts on Sunday due to the vandalism of the power network in the Central Business District of the Federal Capital Territory. In a notice to power users in Nigeria’s capital city, the Abuja Electricity Distribution Company stated that the vandalism caused a power outage in the CBD and some other areas in the FCT. This came as power distribution companies under the aegis of the Association of Nigerian Electricity Distributors stated on Sunday that a total of 8,038.70 megawatts of power was unutilised due to gas and water management issues between April 2, 2022 and April 8, 2022. Providing reasons for the blackout in Federal Government agencies on Sunday, the AEDC said, “Please be informed that we have experienced cases of serious vandalism around our network specifically in the Central Business District and around the Life camp Round-about Abuja, causing a power outage in these areas and environs. “For the vandalism around the Central Business District, the areas affected are CBN, NERC (Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission), Nicon Luxury hotels, Federal Ministry of Finance headquarters, Sahad Stores, Women Development Centre, Army headquarters, and Army Defence College. “For the vandalism at the Lifecamp Round-about, the areas affected are Bella View 1, 2 and 3 Estates, Police Estate and Enoch Estate. The Disco, however, stated that its engineers were at both sites working to restore normal supply soonest. “We sincerely regret any inconveniences and appeal for understanding,” the company stated in the notice which was signed by its management. Meanwhile, power distributors on Sunday stated their findings showed that gas supply limitations and water management issues caused 8,038.70MW of electricity to be unutilised between April 2, 2022 and April 8, 2022. The Executive Director, Research and Advocacy, ANED, Sunday Oduntan, disclosed this in a statement issued in Abuja, as the association denied rejecting over 2,400MW of power during the period under review. He said the Discos nominated a total of 31,825.88MW for the specified period and received 22,188.54MW or 70 per cent of the nominated amount, thus, the Discos did not receive the full value of their nomination. “For the same period, only 668MW of energy was unutilised by the Discos,” Oduntan said. He added, “A further review of the report, for the same period, would indicate that 8,038.70MW was unutilised or constrained due to gas supply limitations (7,443MW) and water management issues (595.70MW). “Discos remain committed to continually improving on electricity supply services based on the energy that is made available to them on the grid on a daily basis.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com