The All Progressives Congress House of Representatives primary election for Ekiti Central Federal Constituency 2 was inconclusive on Friday following violent disruption of the exercise. House of Representatives member, Omowumi Ogunlola, seeking re-election ticket, accused the agents of her co-contestant and the former Chief of Staff to Governor Kayode Fayemi, Mr Biodun Omoleye, of masterminding the violence. The lawmaker told journalists in Aramoko-Ekiti in Ekiti West Council area, venue of the primary, “It was in the course of delegates casting their votes that the personal assistant to the former COS came to intercept what they were doing and took possession of some of the ballot boxes and tore the papers. “The exercise was inconclusive. So, it is normal we have to go all over again. My appeal to the party is that they should conduct a primary for the constituency because we have limited time. “The shadow poll should be conducted in no distant time even tomorrow (Saturday) which is the date for the Senate. They want to take advantage of my gender.” Effort to reach Omoleye on the phone proved abortive. Meanwhile, two serving House of Representatives lawmakers and APC aspirants, Femi Bamisile and Sola Fatoba, won party tickets in their constituencies to serve a second term. Bamisile, Chairman, House Committee on Federal Road Maintenance Agency, polled 160 votes to defeat a serving House of Assembly member representing Emure constituency, Bummi Adelugba. Also, Fatoba, a serving federal lawmaker, who represents Ekiti Central Federal Constituency 1, polled 114 votes to win Oluyemi Esan, Opeyemi Ogunsakin and Sunday Ola, who polled 2, 3 and 0 votes respectively. However, a serving House of Representatives member, Ibrahim Olanrewaju (Ekiti North Federal Constituency 2), lost his bid to secure a return ticket to contest for re-election as he was trounced by a businessman and oil dealer, Mr Akinlayo Kolawole. Also, the Senior Special Assistant on Strategic Communications to Fayemi, Mr Akin Rotimi, won the ticket for Ekiti North Federal Constituency 1. Reacting to their victory, while Bamisile thanked the delegates, all APC leaders and supporters for giving him another opportunity to serve them, Fatoba pleaded with his constituents and Ekiti APC members to join hands “so that we can all work for the victory of APC in the June 18 governorship election”. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com