MATTHEW AZOJI is the Managing Director/ Chief Executive Officer of Neimeth International Pharmaceuticals Plc. He speaks with ANOZIE EGOLE, on some of the  challenges in the sector and the way forward How would you say the Nigerian pharmaceutical industry has fared so far? I will say that the sector is doing well and growing. We have over 120 companies in the Nigerian pharma industry. I am talking about the Pharmaceutical Manufacturers Group of the Manufacturers Association of Nigeria. We have close to 120 members who are doing well, but there are so many challenges. What would you say are the challenges? There are many challenges the industry is battling with. One of the major challenges is access to foreign exchange. I spoke about it last week in Abuja after an award of the National Productivity Merit Award. As you are aware, over 90 percent of inputs of pharmaceutical manufacturers in Nigeria are imported. And today, we have a major challenge, which is access to foreign exchange. It is a big challenge to most manufacturers. It started during COVID-19 when the revenue of the Nigerian government went down because of low demand for oil. And then, because of the low demand, the revenues were low and then foreign exchange became a major challenge. I expect that the revenue should increase even though the Nigerian government still faces the challenge of output because of challenges in the production of crude. But what we know as manufacturers is that getting forex to import raw materials is quite challenging now. That was why I made a call last week that  government should set up a strong special arrangement to support the industry to have access to enough foreign exchange to import essential goods to enhance production. For us to keep our factories running, we need this kind of arrangement. You know that we employ a lot of people in Nigeria and if we have difficulties in getting exchange, it will affect our industry. Of course, the other issues are infrastructure and the recent increase in diesel. You know that electricity supply from the DisCos is not adequate to run a factory all the time and for factories to run, there must be steady power. The price of diesel has, in the last two months, increased from about N300 per litre to between N650-N700 per litre. So, it has a major impact on cost of production. Would you say you are getting the needed support from the Federal Government regarding these challenges? The Federal Government has been giving support in a number of areas to the industry. You are aware that last year, through the support of the Federal Government, the Central Bank of Nigeria rolled out N100billion intervention fund, which many of our members in the industry had access to it. It was a low-cost loan meant to upgrade facilities and even establish new facilities. That was unprecedented and it was a huge support that we were happy about. And then, recently, the 2021 National Drug Policy was approved. That policy is aimed to ensure that 70 per cent of essential medicines in Nigeria are locally produced. Government is planning to make fiscal and other policies to ensure that it comes to pass. However, in the area of this foreign exchange that I talked about, we are yet to see much support. Locally manufactured medicines by members of PMG-MAN are good quality medicines and to ensure that those medicines get to the people on time, we need to have access to foreign exchange to get the necessary inputs. So, we are yet to see and we believe that the government will respond to the call. On the issue of diesel, government is subsidising the Premium Motor Spirit, which is already a huge burden. Recently, I also learnt that airline operators are seeking subsidies in order to keep their aircrafts running. However, I don’t know if it will also be possible for the government to subsidise diesel. If there is anything the government can do to make the price of diesel return to what it was, they should do. You said something about government coming up with plans for local manufacturing of medicines. Would you say that the pharmaceutical sector is ready for that? Yes, the pharmaceutical companies, that is, members of PMG-MAN, locally manufacture at least 70-80 per cent of the products we sell. Most of the products you see here were manufactured at Neimeth factory; they were not imported. So, we are happy that the government is giving attention. The intention of the National Drug Law Policy of 2021 is to ensure that 70 per cent of the drugs used in Nigeria are locally produced. The government has made these policies in the past but they didn’t achieve anything. This time, working with agencies of government like the National Agency for Food, Drug Administration and Control and the rest of them, the government is putting some policies in place to ensure that this happens. For instance, if you register a product to be imported, you will give a commitment of how you will manufacture it locally, next time you want to import. And there are also some products that government agencies like NAFDAC have identified that we have enough capacity in Nigeria to produce. Through fiscal policies, there are restrictions on their importations. Would you say that local pharmaceutical companies are investing in production of vaccines? Well, some are on the planning stage, but there is no major one that has happened. There are, however, a number of reasons for this. You are aware that Nigeria was producing vaccines between 1940 and 1991 at Yaba Vaccine Production Laboratory. The country was producing vaccine for yellow fever, rabies and one other disease. However, in 1991, the facility was closed for an upgrade and modernisation, but at the end of the day, it was shut down for whatever reason. Since 2005, there has been a public-private partnership arrangement by the government trying to revive it, and that is still ongoing. Also in 2021, the government launched and approved the first National Vaccine Policy and part of that policy was meant to focus on how to achieve local vaccine manufacturing. Both through the PPP, for which the Federal Government and other private companies are involved, there are lots of underground works going on towards achieving local vaccine manufacturing. NAFDAC recently said that they wouldn’t like Nigeria to be turned into a dumping ground for pharmaceutical products. What do you make of that? Nobody wants their country to be a dumping ground for products from other countries. You know that Nigeria has signed the African Continental Free Trade Agreement and when that happens, other African countries, through that, will have free access to supply to Nigeria. And what that means is that we should create an enabling environment for our manufacturers to produce quality medicines that can compete in terms of price. So, instead of bringing in things for us, we should be the ones supplying to the rest of Africa. It will interest you to know that more than 60 per cent of manufacturing facilities for drugs in Africa are in Nigeria. Nigeria has the largest number of medicines manufacturing facilities in Africa, so we should be supplying to other African countries.  It will interest you to know that recently, NAFDAC got approval for Maturity Level Three as a regulatory agency from World Health Organisation. The WHO approved NAFDAC to move to the Maturity Level Three as a regulator. That gives NAFDAC the capacity to approve vaccines, regulate them and to regulate other products. And that also gives more authenticity to any product registered by NAFDAC to supply to other countries. In the entire Africa, they are only three national drug regulatory agencies that have that kind of approval in the 56 countries of Africa, and two of them are in West Africa. So, the decision for NAFDAC to stop Nigeria from being a dumping ground for pharmaceutical products is possible, but it requires all parties, commitment and willingness to make it happen. One, NAFDAC will ensure that whatever product that is coming is duly registered and authenticated. Then, our own local manufactures will work hard to ensure that all the standards that are required globally are being met. In a competitive world, you have to be able to compete, produce medicines that are of good quality and also affordable.  In that sense, we are able to supply to our own local users of medicines in a cost-effective manner and also compete in other parts of Africa and beyond. How do you feel that Nigeria, the giant of Africa, cannot manufacture COVID-19 vaccine? Before you can manufacture COVID-19 vaccine, you have to, first of all, have the capacity to manufacture vaccines. As we speak, Nigeria is not manufacturing any vaccine at all. The countries that are manufacturing COVID-19 vaccines are countries that had been manufacturing vaccines before COVID-19 came. All they did was to create extra facilities to support the manufacturing of COVID-19 vaccine. In a pandemic situation it is a security issue. The government has noted it and I believe that it is doing something about that. Do you think Nigeria can end the menace of substandard medicines? The issue of prevalence of substandard and outright fake products is not only seen in a country like Nigeria; it occurs in all jurisdictions all over the world. Even in the developed world, it is also a challenge, though the level might vary. Some may be very low while some may be very high. What you do is to curb it and bring it to the barest minimum. NAFDAC has done a lot on this, right from the time of late Dora Akunyili as the director-general. Like I told you, NAFDAC recently obtained the WHO’s level three and the agency got this last year. That means that products approved by NAFDAC will receive higher recognition anywhere outside Nigeria. It also means that before now, NAFDAC could not approve vaccines but NAFDAC has the capacity to regulate vaccines today. That is what that means. NAFDAC has been working hard to minimise prevalence of fake and substandard medicines. We, the local manufacturers of pharmaceuticals, as individuals companies, have specific actions that we are taking which may not be openly visible to the ordinary person. So, the more you buy local products by recognised manufacturers, the more quality medicines you have. Each one of us takes steps in supporting NAFDAC and part of what we do is to ensure that we comply with all the regulatory requirements associated with manufacturing, marketing, sales and distribution of medicines. We comply with every step that is needed. There are specific regulations to ensure that the patient gets the best. Some of them are prescribed by NAFDAC, some by the Pharmacists Council of Nigeria, and some by the Standards Organisation of Nigeria. The other aspect is that the average Nigerian has to support these efforts by stopping to patronise fake medicines. How do they know fake medicines? They are the cheapest in the market, and the fakers always thrive on price. For instance, if you have a product selling for N500, you may also see the same product selling for N250. It might be a pass-off on the original and the majority of them are imported. Another thing we need to do is to educate the Nigerian medicine user. One of the things we must know is that sometimes when people are not getting well after taking medications, it will be important to also probe the medicines they are using. The community knows the fakers, so they should isolate them socially. Are you saying that original medicines cannot be cheap? The original medicines are affordable and cost-effective. I do not use the word ‘cheap’. You know price is an index and it is comparative. Before you say that something is cheap, you must compare it to something else. We try to manufacture medicines that are affordable and accessible to people, but we must not compromise quality. How has COVID-19 affected the pharmaceutical industry? COVID-19 was a big challenge in 2019, and 2020 was the height of it. In March 2020, the lockdown started and it affected the sector in the sense that we could not allow all our staff to work the way they used to, due to social distancing. So, it affected production output, access to our customers, and our representatives. We were not able to see them because they were all in their locations during the lockdown. Also, during that period, there was a major challenge with the supply chain. The global supply chain was disrupted, so we could not access raw materials in a timely manner. We could not access them at all sometimes. Also, today, there is scarcity of containers and things like that. It is also the COVID-19 that started the current spate of poor access to foreign exchange. It started in 2020 and it has continued till now. Then, the benefit that we got as an industry was the fact that it was COVID-19 that drove the government to provide the CBN N100 billion intervention fund, for which many of our members benefited. Then, of course, it also brought about the issue of collaboration to make the industry better and create more value for our patients. The reason why we are in the business is to make sure that the average Nigerian patient has access to quality medicines at affordable prices. Some medicines are on prohibition list.  How does this affect your operations? Nigeria is blessed with vibrant youths. But now, some of these youths are being destroyed because they are abusing substances. Tramadol is a normal medicine that is supposed to be used to treat severe pains, but it should be taken under doctors’ prescription. The doctor prescribes the quantity and the length of time that the person is supposed to take it. But what do we see? A lot of people take large quantity of this product for one reason or another. So, government is right in restricting the free sale of these medicaments. I support that because if it is restricted in the manner in which other narcotic medicines are restricted, it will be better. So, I am in full support of the restriction because drug abuse is also one of the things increasing crimes and destroying the future of young people. What can be done to improve industrial relations between pharmacists and other health workers in the country? If my perception is right, the relationship has drastically improved. I know when there used to be a lot of friction between pharmacists and medical practitioners in the healthcare industry.  But things have improved and our colleagues are no longer complaining as before. That is not to say that pharmacists have received equal or deserved treatment at most health institutions. We look forward to the regime of pharmacists as leaders of hospitals and health facilities. I think the relevant bodies such as the Pharmaceutical Society of Nigeria (PSN) and the Nigerian Medical Association (NMA)  are collaborating to ensure industrial rapport in the health sector, where no profession is seen as superior to another. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com