The Islamic State of West Africa province killed three people in Kautikari ward of Chibok Local Government Area on Tuesday while the United Nations Secretary-General, Antonio Guterres, was paying a courtesy visit to the Borno State Governor, Babagana Zulum, at the Government House in Maiduguri. The terrorists have attacked the village countless times within the past five months, according to a Chibok resident. The attack, according to the villager, started around 6 o’clock pm and it got all the villagers deserting for safety in the nearby Sambisa forest where the terrorists camped. “The attack started at 6:20 pm this evening (Tuesday). They came on their motorcycles and started to shoot randomly from all angles. “The villagers ran to the bush for safety but the bush is Sambisa forest and that is where the Boko Haram insurgents are living. That village has been attacked more than ten times this year alone,” Adamson, a handicapped from Chibok told PUNCH. “There is no other village around there except the Sambisa forest and the people living there have never left their homes despite the attacks. “According to what I was told by my source who is presently hiding in the bush, the terrorists shot one man dead in his car and then set the car ablaze with the dead body inside the vehicle. “They also killed two others while also burning down several houses. But we cannot determine the level of damage or destruction now until in the morning when they are all back in their villages,” Adamson said. The attack occurred almost the same time as the UN Secretary-General was visiting Borno State for an on-the-spot assessment of the level of damage done by the Boko Haram insurgency in Borno. The UN Chief who visited Gubio camp immediately when he arrived in Maiduguri told Zulum that he was happy with the condition he met the IDPs and pledged to offer all necessary assistance to ensure the safe return of IDPs to their ancestral homes in line with the state government’s resettlement plan. “I saw people that have suffered smiling and hoping for the best. I saw ex-terrorists trying to integrate into society and I discovered that here in Borno we will not solve the problem if we do not solve the root cause of the problems. “But I see here in Borno a governor who is determined to establish confidence and trust between the population and government. When the population does not trust the government, they follow terrorists. When the population sees the government cannot do anything for them, they follow terrorists. But here I see a government that is not only thinking about impressing the population but thinking about the future. “I see that what they really want is not food but the condition to really go back home in dignity and safety,” he said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com