In Nigeria today, I respect some government agencies for their forward-thinking and daily improvement in the use of technology. The Federal Inland Revenue Service and the Lagos State Internal Revenue Service are two such. Recently the Ogun State IRS also upgraded the payment system such that when you want to pay your tax, a bill is generated and the bank account you will see on the invoice will show your name. I hope that we would be able to continue and stop the act of stopping anything good once there is a change in government. Some days ago, the entire country went on rage among professionals over one circular emanating from FIRS asking companies to ensure they obtain an Acceptance Certificate for Qualifying Capital Expenditure of N500,000 and above. This law was made in the ‘70s when such a threshold has a value of over N1.4 billion. The Industrial Inspectorate Act promulgated in 1970 was relevant at that time but not in today’s Nigeria; at that time the value of the naira to the US dollar was $4.7260. It means if you compare that with the value today and try to maintain the same position (the asset class that is used as a benchmark requiring such a certificate as analysed) then N1,000,000 worth of Asset then (in the 70s) will be $4,726,000. If you compare that with the exchange rate of today, which has reversed through mismanagement of our economy and monetary policy (by men who ought to face their duty of strengthening the system but allowed greed and selfish interest to divert their attention from their responsibilities), over the years what you get from  N1 million worth of assets is about N2,835,600,000. The implication of the above is that the only asset that qualifies for any company to seek an Acceptance Certificate is over  N1.4 billion. Please note billion and not million. Apart from this, does it mean that in all these 23 years of the new unbroken democracy, nobody in the National Assembly saw any irrelevant provisions of this archaic law and deem it fit to make an amendment or a complete deletion? Anyway, today is not to talk about what people like to do and why they want to go to National Assembly. Looking at it from another angle, the requirement of substantiating the value of assets over the years does not require this archaic law. Third party document is enough evidence to prove the asset value. Another angle to look at is the Ease of Doing Business, why do we enjoy or derive pleasure in disturbing people that are running our economy. (By that I mean employers of labour and people in the private sector)? Why do we enjoy adding to the burdens of people that we should be encouraging? Where is the Ease of Doing Business, we all need to embrace? If you buy just two laptops, one printer and one table today, you are in excess of N500,000. Let us do the mathematics, for that, you now need to go and apply for Acceptance Certificate and travel to Abuja from Lagos with the current aviation fuel cost and airline ticket, you will spend about N350,000 for ticket and hotel which is almost the value of N500,000 asset. They will also come for inspection, wasting our dwindling resources on nonsense voyages that can only encourage corruption. Where are the business-minded men in the government? The value of N1,000,000 worth of assets to the dollar, when compared to what it was then in 1970 to the dollar, is now like $1,667. Then it was $47m. The implication of that is that such a law should not have a place here now at all. Is FIRS is trying to do esprit de corps to make the Federal Inspectorate Division of the Ministry of Trade happy? Why not tell state governments to demand the Tax Clearance Certificate of those who purchased N100 million or N50 million or N20 million forms and get to see what they paid in the last 10 years. Then insist that anyone who could get a form of N100 million should show tax payment evidence of N120 million in three years. Then you will see those who can show face. Let us stop adding more trouble to our people. We have enough crisis on diesel cost and lack of electricity than to be facing another trauma again. Two years ago, some teams started going from one company to another claiming they are from the Ministry of Labour and Productivity. What are they producing?  They want to check the workforce and their welfare in private companies. FIRS should withdraw that circular and all men and women preparing to reap another set of fruits from the labour of pains of private companies in the name of outdated and irrelevant Acceptance Certificate should just go back to their office and think of how to develop Nigeria and not how to add to our pains. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com