The Gombe State Police Command says no one has been arrested since Wednesday when youths from opposing camps clashed, claiming three lives during the recent Sallah Durbar procession by a group of horse riders. Speaking in a telephone interview with our correspondent on Friday, Mahid Mua’zu, revealed that the incident involved those from Jekadafari and Bolari within the Gombe metropolis. The Emir of Gombe, Abubakar Shehu, on Wednesday, led horse riders from various groups in the emirate on Eid -el-Fitr homage to the Government House as it’s the tradition. He said, “We are still investigating, no arrest for now; if there is anything we will communicate accordingly. The violence was caused by youths from Jekadafari and Bolari.” Meanwhile, the Gombe State Governor, Muhammadu  Yahaya, has pleaded with opposing camps to sheathe their swords and embrace peace. According to a press statement signed by the Director of Press Government House, Ismaila Misilli, the governor condemned the act, which he described as senseless. Yahaya, who commiserated with families of those who lost loved ones, also prayed for quick recovery of the injured. The governor also directed security agencies to carry out a thorough investigation and bring to book perpetrators of the heinous act. However, Yahaya had earlier led a delegation to the funeral prayer for two of the deceased at the Gombe Specialist Hospital, vowing to continue to do everything necessary to protect the lives and property of the residents. The governor’s statement partly read, “We condemn in strong terms this unfortunate situation and commiserate with the affected families. We also urge all aggrieved persons and residents to remain calm and allow justice to run its due course, as efforts are underway by security agencies to ensure that those liable for the crime are brought to book.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com