Gunmen suspected to be members of the proscribed Indigenous People of Biafra enforcing the sit-at-home order in the early hours of Wednesday attacked a truck belonging to the Dangote Group at Ugbolu village, area of Asaba, killing the driver and his assistant. A commercial driver, identified as Okafor, told The PUNCH that the attackers blocked all routes leading in and out of the community around 6am The Delta State Commissioner of Police, Muhammed Ali, confirmed the incident to journalists but said only one life was lost during the attack. “Before my men could arrive at the scene, they had the driver down and set two trucks and a tricycle ablaze,” he said. Also, an unidentified woman in Enugu was reported killed by hoodlums enforcing sit-at-home on Wednesday at PRODA Junction along the Enugu-Abakaliki highway. The hoodlums also burnt a Sienna bus at Old Orie Emene Junction. One of our correspondents, who monitored development in some parts of the state, reported that roads were deserted from Emene, New Heaven, Abakpa, GRA, and Obiagu. Efforts to get police’s reaction were unsuccessful as the command’s spokesman Daniel Ndukwe, did not take his calls as the phone rang out. In Anambra State, the situation was not different as commercial and economic activities were again grounded in major cities such as Onitsha, Nnewi, Oba, and Awka. Roads were deserted by vehicles and turned to football fields. However, five men were arrested at Ekwulobia in Aguata Local Government Area for threatening a food vendor. When contacted, the state police spokesman, DSP Tochukwu Ikenga, said, “We don’t have such a report before us yet. But I urge the food vendor to go to the nearest police station and report. This will help us to identify the hoodlums and possibly arrest them.” In Abakaliki, Ebonyi State, residents also obeyed the sit-at-home order. Our correspondent, who monitored activities in Abakaliki observed that institutions were shut. Also, on major roads and streets in the capital city, such as Onwe Road, Ogoja Road, Water Works Road, Afikpo Road, Enugu/Abakaliki Road, and Spera-In-Deo roundabout, there were no signs of economic life, as shops, schools and offices shut. In Owerri, the Imo state capital, residents also obeyed the sit-at-home order. Banks, schools, offices and markets were shut as our correspondent monitored the development. Douglas, Wetheral, Ikenegbu, Okigwe Road, Royce Road, Njemanze, Mbari Road, and Oparanozie Road were deserted. The ever-busy government house roundabout, Warehouse junction, control post junction, and fire junction were also deserted. Corporate offices and markets were not left out as people stayed indoors. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com