Manchester City U-23 striker Tai Sodje, 18, is the latest in a long line of the Sodje sports dynasty making goals scoring look so easy. The youngster, who has a Nigerian father and English mother, tells ’TANA AIYEJINA about his young career, his football-playing uncles, City’s bragging rights in Manchester and more in this interview How would you describe the outgoing season at City, playing for the U23s? The season started off very good. I actually played in quite a few games, scored some goals, was winning games but then, obviously I got injured. And I’ve been injured for the past five-and-a-half months. So, I’ll say there wasn’t any amazing thing after I’ve come back but I’m fit now, which is good. Being in the U-23s is very good. We’ve got a very good group of players and also we’ve won the league back to back now, so, it’s a very good experience, I really enjoy it. City lost out to Madrid in the UCL semis recently. How did you feel watching the game on TV? It was a very good game all-round. I thought City played very well, very good. They actually dominated but obviously, what happened towards the end of the game, the last few minutes was really unlucky. When I was at home, I was properly tensed because obviously, I wanted City to win and go through to the final. Were you heartbroken after the defeat? City haven’t ever won the UCL… Yea, I was, because obviously it’s one thing the team has been longing to win, so it was tough to see them lose, it was tough. Your dad played rugby; did you opt for football because your uncles were fine footballers? I don’t think that was the exact reason. I think throughout my life when I was younger, I played a bit of both sports to just see which one I preferred at that age. But then, when I was in school, I fell in love with football more. So, from that moment, I just began to play a lot more and then realised that I was decent at football. So, I’ve just played it ever since. Football and sports run in the Sodjes. What is the secret? There’s no secret. It’s all in the genes. How has your uncles helped in your progression as a footballer? My uncles have both helped me, telling me different ways I can get better, different things to improve and then how to improve them. They’ve all been a massive help within my career so far. Did your dad convince you to play rugby? Oh, not really. He just wanted me to do whatever would make me happy and as I said, when I was younger, I tried playing both sports and I preferred playing football, that’s what I enjoyed playing the most. You have a Nigerian dad and English mum. Which would you prefer to play for, England or Nigeria? I think on that one, we’ll just have to see whatever the future holds and whoever comes first. Reports in Nigeria say you earlier turned down England’s invitations at youth level. How true is this? At the moment, I’m just focusing on club football, trying to get into the first team. We’ll just have to see what happens in the future. Have you been to Nigeria before? How much do you know about the country? No, I’ve never been to the country before but I’ve heard a lot of good things about the country from my dad, uncles and my mum that has been there as well. I know a good amount about the country. Yeah, I love Nigerian food. My dad cooks it or I go to the Nigerian restaurants here in Manchester to eat. I listen to some Nigerian musicians as well. Burna Boy is probably one of my favourite ones, I follow his songs. How much of Nigerian players do you know and who’s your best among them? I know quite a few players from the Nigerian first team and I think some of the best are (Samuel) Chukwueze, (Victor) Osimhen and (Kelechi) Iheanacho. A lot of black and mixed race players have complained of racism in England, the latest issue involving John Yems, the Crawley manager. Have you been a victim? Personally, I haven’t had any racism issue in the game or anything like that, so it’s not anything I’ve had to deal with. Who’s your favourite Man City star? In the first team, they’re all top level players; maybe I’ll pick Gabriel Jesus because I just like the way he plays. I think he’s a top striker and winger. How soon do you think you can break into City’s first team? It’s obviously tough because the team they’ve got is unbelievable in the first team. Hopefully, I’ll be there as soon as I can. It all depends on everything really because that team is probably the best team right now. So, I’ve just got to keep working and keep doing what I can do. What sort of manager is Pep Guardiola? You think he’s the best in the world? I think Pep is definitely the best manager in the world. The way he gets the first team to play is unbelievable. The football they play is unbelievable, so, I think he’s the best manager in the world. It’s always an electrifying atmosphere when City take on arch rivals Man United. Is it same thing at U-23 level? In the U23s, the Manchester derby is also a big rivalry; it’s also a massive game. This year, Manchester is blue because we beat them in both legs. You remember your hat-trick against Liverpool? You must have been in ninth heaven after the feat! My hat-trick mans a lot to me, it’s one of the best games I played last year and to get a hat-trick against a big team, it was amazing and then to win the game 3-1 as well, which made it even better. What are the best and worst moments of your young career so far? The best part of my career so far has probably been to win back-to-back leagues and probably the worst was the injury this season because it was a long time and to miss the games. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com