A coalition of civil society organisations working in conjunction with the United States Agency for International Development has made a case for increased budgetary allocation to the water sector in Akwa Ibom State. The coalition noted that such an intervention would address the challenges of epidemic and water-borne diseases threatening the over 7.2 million population of the state. This was the outcome of a two-day workshop which ended on Saturday in Uyo, the Akwa Ibom State capital, with  the theme, “Strengthening Civic Advocacy and Local Engagement.” The participants expressed worry over the prevalence of poor sanitary conditions of the environment and inadequate water engineering in the state across the 31 local goverrnment areas for agricultural and households’ needs. Addressing participants drawn from the state government, CSOs and other NGOs, the Project Director and Chief Executive Officer, Africa Human Development Centre, Prof. Gabriel Umoh, lamented government’s non-commitment to funding the water sector, noting that such negligence had impinged negatively on the living conditions of the people. The professor of Agricultural and Development Economics at the University of Uyo charged the state government to “show more than a passing interest in funding the sector by demonstrating strong political will to increase allocation with effective monitoring mechanisms to ensure efficient management of such funds.” Welcoming participants, Umoh explained that, “We are advocating for increased WASH budgetary allocations and timely releases, institutionalisation of WASH monitoring and evaluation framework as well as adoption of open defecation-free roadmap in the state for sustainable service delivery,” he added. He recalled that the workshop had, in the past three to five years, conducted participatory reviews of government budget with a view to identifying the gaps in budgetary allocations to WASH, as compared to other sectors, regretting, however, that “fundings to the sector have been ridiculously low.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com