Embattled actor, Olarenwaju Omiyinka, aka Baba Ijesha, seems to have got his groove back, as he has constantly been making posts on social media. He is also paid to give birthday shout-outs to people celebrating birthdays and other events. Recall that the actor is still undergoing trial over his alleged defilement of a minor. The girl in question is comedian, Princess’ ward and the alleged molestation took place at her house. When the incident initially happened, Baba Ijesha usually looked downcast and forlorn, especially when appearing in court. However, the actor seems to have put the matter behind him and is back to his acting career. In the videos, the actor can be seen looking chubby and excited, which is a far cry from how morose he usually looked at the height of the crisis. As of the time of filing this report, he had over 900, 000 followers on his Facebook page. In one of the video posts, he hailed popular lawyer, Femi Falana (SAN) on his birthday, describing him as someone who fights for victims of injustice. In the comment section, his followers were pleased with him as they showered him with commendation. Toyin Jaji wrote, “Good job”; CJ Chijoke wrote, “Even though I don’t understand Yoruba (language), I like this”; Adebisi Bolatito wrote, “It is a job well done. Baba Ijesha keep on thriving.” In another video post, he greeted actor, Yomi Fabiyi, who was one his staunchest supports when the incident initially happened, especially when he was yet to be admitted to bail. Meanwhile, our correspondent called a number displayed on the Facebook page and posed as someone who wanted to pay for a birthday shout out. The person who answered the call claimed to be Ijesha’s managers. He stated that a shout out costs between N30,000 and N50,000 naira per shout out. He said, “We have two types of birthday packages— N30,000 and N50,000. “The one of N30,000 naira will not be posted on Baba Ijesha’s page, while that of N50,000 will appear on his page.” However, when our correspondent expressed concern that the child molestation scandal could have a negative impact on the person being wished a ‘happy birthday’, the manager, who identified himself as Daniel, said, “As I speak, we are at a location. Every week, we produce contents all around Nigeria. The scandal was just a publicity stunt by the lady (in question). It does not have any negative effect on Baba Ijesha. “If you are ready and you have your money with you, you can send the details we asked for and by tomorrow, between 12pm and 4pm, your video will be ready, and we will send it to you.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com