The Peoples Democratic Party, Gombe State chapter, has begged Governor Aminu Tambuwal of Sokoto State to rescue the party from the pains of being in the opposition. Gombe, until 2019, when Muhammadu Yahaya of the All Progressives Congress was declared winner, had been a PDP-controlled state. Tambuwal, who is the current chairman PDP Governors’ Forum, was in Gombe with his entourage on Monday night to solicit the support of the state’s delegates ahead of the 2023 primary election. Speaking on behalf of the party, Major General Amnon Kwaskebe (retd.), appealed to the governor to work assiduously to align the state to become an APC-led state. According to Kwaskebe, “Your excellency, we want you to intervene in the situation we have found ourselves in Gombe using your office as Chairman of PDP Governors’ Forum. We need help. Use your position at PDP Governors’ Forum and see how you can come in.” While commending Tambuwal’s leadership qualities, Kwaskebe promised the support of the state’s delegates, adding that he had shown remarkable leadership in times past. “Your excellency, your track records are there for everyone to see. I want to assure you of votes of Gombe delegates,” Kwaskebe said. On his part, Tambuwal promised to tackle insecurity, adding that he would focus also on fighting the challenges of trust in governance. The Sokoto Governor said, “I’m thinking about bringing everyone in the country to discuss and engage on the way forward for this country. In any case, those talking about restructuring are not talking about physical restructuring, some are talking about physical restructuring, and some others are talking about how we can devolve power to the states, and local government. “There is a need to take more development to the grassroots for equitable distribution of resources. I know these issues as a former Speaker of the country.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com