Head coach Randy Waldrum has invited 32 players to the camp of the Super Falcons as the Cup holders get set for a two-week training camp in Morocco ahead of the 12th Women’s Africa Cup of Nations holding in same country from July 2 to 23. Goalkeeper Chiamaka Nnadozie, defender and captain Onome Ebi, midfielders Rasheedat Ajibade and Toni Payne, and forwards Francisca Ordega, Desire Oparanozie and Asisat Oshoala are among those called to the two-week intensive training programme. Thenff.com learnt that the training camp would start on June 18 in the North African kingdom, with all players already advised to arrive in Rabat June 17. Nine-time champions Nigeria play in Group C of the 12-team tournament alongside South Africa’s Banyana Banyana, Botswana and Burundi. Nigeria’s first match of the competition, at which Africa’s four representatives to next year’sWomen’s World Cup in Australia and New Zealand will emerge, is against the Banyana at the Complexe Sportif Prince Abdellah in Rabat July 4. Full list: Goalkeepers: C. Nnadozie (Paris, France); T. Oluehi (MK Hadera, Israel); R. Akarekor (Nasarawa Amazons); Y. Balogun (Coppermine United, USA) Defenders: O. Sunday (Edo Queens); G. Ogbonna (Santa Teresa, Spain); O. Ebi (Guingamp, France); O. Ohale (Alaves, Spain); U. Emenayo (Belediyespor, Turkey); A. Plumptre (Leicester, England); N. Payne (WVU, USA); M. Alozie (Houston Dash, USA); A. Ogbonna (Edo Queens) Midfielders: P. Efih (Kiryat Gat, Israel); A. Mbadi (Belediyespor, Turkey); H. Ayinde (Eskilstuna, Sweden); C. Adule (Deportivo, Spain); T. Payne (Sevilla, Spain); R. Otu (Minsk, Belarus); C. Ucheibe (Benfica, Portugal); R. Ajibade (Atletico, Spain); R. Chikwelu (Madrid, Spain); S. Abideen (Edo Queens) Forwards: A. Imo (Pitea, Sweden); F. Ordega (CSKA, Russia); D. Oparanozie (Wuhan Jianghan, China); V. Ikechukwu (Gintra, Lithuania); C. Macleans (Leczna, Poland); C. Ihezuo (MH Club, China); I. Onumonu (Gotham, USA); U. Kanu (Tigres, Mexico); A. Oshoala (Barcelona, Spain)