The Zenith Labour Party, on Friday in Abuja, said it would change its name to ensure inclusivity ahead of the 2023 general elections. The party also revealed that preparations were ongoing for its primary elections, which would begin on Friday, May 27 and end with the presidential primary on June 1, 2022; before the Independent National Electoral Commission’s June 3 deadline. The National Chairman of the party, Dan Nwanyanwu, revealed these as part of the resolutions made at its National Executive Committee meeting on Friday. He stated, “The ZLP NEC also considered tinkering with its name, changing its name to something that will be more accommodating. “We have issues from people in the progressive bloc and conservatives, who are progressives in their actions and dealings, that they should be accommodated. And these are some of the challenges we have faced in this nomination process.” Nwanyanwu, who did not disclose the new name the party would adopt, added, “We are coming up with a new name to accommodate all shades of opinion. We don’t want to leave any group behind. But everything must be hinged on the masses. “It is not a question of having an ideology that will not protect the people. We will not lose sight of our ideology. We will not lose sight of our mission and vision.” He, however, urged youths, women and persons with disabilities vying for various electoral offices in next year’s elections to leverage the free nomination forms the party was issuing to their categories. Nwanyanwu also noted that with the conclusion of the ZLP congresses in most states nationwide, the party would commence its primaries on May 27 with the state Houses of Assembly nomination and conclude with the presidential primary on June 1. He said, “We have held our congresses across the states, except in a few states, that we will soon conclude. We are also ready for the primaries in line with the timetable published by INEC. “Our primaries for the state assemblies will commence on May 27 and terminate with the presidential primary on June 1, where the presidential candidate will be unveiled. “We are calling on the youth to use this window of free nomination for them, for women, for people living with disabilities to come and run on our platform.” Copyright PUNCH All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com