The Médecins Sans Frontières/Doctors Without Borders has said that children are no longer dying of lead poisoning in Zamfara State. A statement signed by Field Communication Officer, MSF, Abdulkareem Yakubu, explained that in March 2010, MSF received an alert about a high number of child fatalities in Zamfara state, saying, more than 400 children died within just six months in several villages. It added that between May 2010 and December 2021, MSF screened 8,480 children under five for lead poisoning, adding that more than 80 per cent of them were enrolled in a medical lead program, including 3,549 children who received lengthy chelation therapy to remove lead from their blood. The statement said almost 12 years after MSF first started intervening in the area, children were no more dying of lead poisoning in Zamfara. MSF project coordinator, Benjamim Mwangombe, said, ‘‘One of the key factors for the successful reduction of exposure to lead poisoning was the involvement of international organisations with expertise in environmental health, safer mining and occupational health that complemented MSF’s medical response. ‘’Artisanal mining had been going on for a decade in this area. People transformed the villages into processing sites and contaminated the environment for many years. Children were exposed to contaminated dust and soil in the villages” ‘‘Laboratory tests later confirmed high levels of lead in the blood of survivors. The root cause of the poisoning was environmental contamination through unsafe, artisanal mining activities in the area, where gold deposits contain an unusually high concentration of lead. Lead can cause severe brain damage and death in children.’’ He explained that MSF intervention, which was community-based improved local capacity should there be another outbreak, there would be the capacity to respond. ‘‘As a result, MSF started the handing over process of  the program to key ministries of the Zamfara State government, the Anka Emirate Council and the local community at the beginning of February 2022 and completed the handing over on May 11 with the official handing over ceremony,’’ he said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com