Cleric of the Eternal Sacred Order of The Cherubim & Seraphim Church, Ijeh, Lagos, His Eminence J. O. Oladapo, has, on Saturday, called for prayers over the state of the nation, particularly on governance and the security challenges being faced by the country. The cleric, while addressing a press conference in advance of the 2022 mid-year conference of the church, hosted by its Lagos Central Territorial Conference, noted that one of the major reasons for the press conference was to make a few remarks about the state of the nation. He stated that the state of security in Nigeria had never been this worrisome, maintained that government weapons had failed to deliver Nigerians, adding that the police and soldiers themselves were now prey to armed bandits. His Eminence Oladapo who was represented by Apostle C. A Bayode, said, “Our country, Nigeria is passing through a challenging period in almost all facets of human endeavours, but the rate of insecurity has never been as worrisome as we are experiencing it now (2 Tim.3:1). “Boko Haram and banditry have almost taken over the country, committing heinous crimes against God and humanity. People found it difficult to travel, while farmers have abandoned their farms. Nobody can sleep with two eyes closed. Kidnapping, killing, and wanton destruction of lives and properties are common news with little to cheer us up. “Government weapons have failed to deliver us, as soldiers and policemen have become easy prey to the armed bandits (Psa.20:7).” He said that the only solution, however, was to intensify prayers. “The only thing left for us to survive this period is prayer (Eph. 6:18). We must continue to seek the face of God, fast, and pray for this country (1 Tim.2:1-2). All that is happening now has happened before in the Bible and when people realize their mistakes (sins) and asked for forgiveness, the good Lord intervened, fought their battle, and healed their land (2 Chro. 7:14),” he said. Speaking on the participation of Christians in politics, the cleric noted that the church had stood aloof for a very long time, and could no longer do so. When asked if the church was now promoting politics, Apostle Bayode responded by saying it was correct to nurture potential politicians from the church as they would not depart from the good teachings when they eventually got to power. He stated that those who were interested in politics should go ahead and deliver with the fear of God. When also asked about his opinion on the attempts to gag religious leaders from speaking critically on the state of the nation, he maintained that everybody had the right to say what he felt like saying, adding that the contribution of individuals was important to whatever the country had become today. On politics, he said, “There has been increasing clamour by various Christian bodies encouraging Christians to join politics. Yes, we see nothing wrong with it for those who have the wherewithal to play the game. The issue of State and Religion has been settled for a long time and I may not want to bother you with history, but Christians that have joined politics must go there with virtues and remain clean and not lose focus of their motive in life of making the Kingdom of God. “In Nigeria, we have had Christians as Presidents, Ministers, Governors, and Local Council Chairmen but can we say the environment has made them perform as real Christians. Your answer is as good as mine. What we need is to be united as Christians and Pray for this country. The major solution to the social, economic, and political challenges Nigeria is facing is prayer.” Oladapo concluded by enjoining Nigerian leaders to be truthful and committed to making life better for the masses of Nigerians, urging Nigerians to also seek the face of God and pray for guidance to elect new leaders. Other men of God at the conference were Apostle Prophet F.T Agunbiade, Apostle Isaac Adeyemi, Apostle Ogunfowora, Apostle Soyemi,  Apostle Osinubi, and  Apostle Adebanjo, Evangelist Olayinka Napoleon. The church also stated that its 2022 mid-year conference was scheduled to hold from May 13 – 15, 2022. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com