A former Minister of Transportation and All Progressives Congress presidential aspirant, Rotimi Ameachi, has said that he is the most qualified among all the presidential aspirants. Ameachi made the remark when he paid a courtesy call on Kano State Governor, Abdullahi Ganduje, at the Government House, Kano, on Wednesday. The presidential hopeful, who was in Kano to meet with APC stakeholders, said he remained the most qualified and experienced among all the presidential aspirants with the various political positions he had held in the country. “Even though I am not the youngest, I am the most experienced of all of them because I served as a member of the Assembly for eight years. “I also served as governor for eight years and served as a minister for seven years. I led the campaign at the peak of the political crisis that unseated a sitting government at that time. “So don’t vote for me just because I am Amaechi but by what I have done,” Amaechi told Ganduje. Ameachi, who called on Ganduje to give him the necessary support to enable him to clinch the presidential ticket, said if elected President, he would improve the power supply for economic growth and development of the country. In his remarks, Ganduje assured Ameachi of his support, saying we know how much you have committed yourself to the coming of this government and how you have invested. Ganduje used the occasion to commend Ameachi for concretising the position of Kano as the biggest railway station in Africa and ensuring that the Dala inland Dry Port project, which was abandoned many years ago, was reawarded and soon be completed. Among those who accompanied the presidential aspirant to Kano was. former Chief of Army Staff, Lt.Gen. Tukur Buratai (retd.), and former Inspector General of Police (retd.) Sulaiman Abba. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com