The Anambra State Governor, Prof Chukwuma Soludo, has faulted claims that the person he met with at the Department of State Services detention facility in Abuja was not the real Nnamdi Kanu, the leader of the proscribed Indigenous People of Biafra. Soludo had visited the IPOB leader last Friday and posted the videos of the visit on Twitter. He hinted that his visit to Kanu was in continuation of finding lasting peace in the South-East. Responding to insinuations by some persons that Kanu was used to putting on white dress unlike the red clothes he wore when Soludo met him, the Chief Press Secretary to the governor, Christian Aburime, said, “The people saying Soludo posted the video of a cloned Kanu are telling barefaced lies to deceive the people. The truth is obvious. They think a governor would want to get involved in that kind of frivolity by coming to tell the people that he met Kanu if he did not meet him? “In essence, Soludo met with Kanu and not a cloned fellow. Everything is clear enough, you can see the governor and Kanu in the videos clearly; it was not cloned as people are erroneously propagating. “On the reason he wore a red dress instead of the traditional white cloth that he usually wears to court, it is because the judge has directed that the DSS allows him access to any cloth he wants to wear and even allow him to watch television. So, on the day the governor visited him, he was wearing a different cloth, People should not expect him to wear one type of cloth every day.” He also quoted the governor as saying the IPOB leader expressed sadness over what he described as “sacrilegious killings” of innocent persons, kidnappings and all forms of criminalities, including the brutal enforcement of the “sit at home” perpetuated by sundry groups claiming to be acting for or on behalf of IPOB. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com