A two-term member of the House of Representatives, Hon. Michael Enyong, has emerged as the winner of a parallel primary which was conducted at Ewet Housing Estate, Uyo, the Akwa Ibom State capital. Enyong, who is representing Uyo Federal Constituency at the Federal House of Representatives, was declared the winner of the parallel primary, whose venue was different from the Godswill Akpabio International Stadium, where Pst. Umo Eno was declared the winner. A report made available to our correspondent in Uyo, Akwa Ibom State on Wednesday night indicated that the lawmaker defeated other aspirants to emerge the winner having scored a total of 2448 votes. Announcing the results of the exercise following votes cast by the accredited delegates across the 31 Local Government Areas, the returning officer, Mr.  I. D. Sunday said Enyong scored 2448 votes and trailed by Pastor Umo Eno who polled 239 votes; Obong Bassey Albert scored 50 votes; Hon. Onofiok Luke, 34 votes; Akan Okon, 5 votes while Mr Ide Owodiong, scored none. Enyong’s declaration is coming hours after Pst. Umo Eno, Governor Emmanuel’s anointed successor was declared the winner of the PDP primary held at the Nest of Champion International Stadium, in Uyo and supervised by the Resident Electoral Commissioner for Akwa Ibom state, Mr. Mike Igini Eno, a former commissioner of Lands pulled a total of 993 votes, beating other contestants to emerge as the PDP governorship candidate for the 2023 general election. A total of 1018 delegates were accredited to vote at the primary. However, Enyong, while reacting shortly after he was declared winner of the parallel primary, thanked the “delegates for their overwhelming and unwavering trust reposed in him to represent the party in the 2023 governorship election in the State”. He said as the candidate with the right formula to fight poverty, he would “eradicate poverty from all the nooks and crannies of the state and ensure improved lives for  the children, youths, women and men in the state” He, therefore, called on all other aspirants who could not emerge who lost at the primaries to see his victory as a win for all and called on them to join hands with him to conquer the state for the PDP come 2023. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com