The Vice President, Prof.Yemi Osinbajo, on Saturday in Zamfara said the country works best when citizens are united toward building a sustainable future. He also noted that as Vice President and aspiring President, balance and fairness remain his ultimate goal for the country. According to a statement signed on Sunday by his Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity, Laolu Akande, Osinbajo was speaking to stakeholders and delegates of the All Progressives Congress in Zamfara and Katsina states as part of consultations ahead of the party’s presidential primary elections slated for May 29 and 30. The statement is titled ‘In Zamfara, Katsina, Emirs tell Osinbajo ‘we are behind you,’ describe him as a bridge-builder and needed, experienced leader.’ He said “One of the most important things for our country is that we must be united, there is no other way. The reason is that the greatness of this country depends on our numbers and diversity. “If you look at other African countries, many of them are smaller than states in Nigeria. This is a country that works best when we are together. Despite religion and tribe, every one of us must come together. I look forward to ensuring that our country becomes one that is truly great. But it can only realise its true potential, if we all work together to achieve that potential. “I know that this country can be united, because the people of this country want to be united and work together. If we are united in this country, everything will work easily. For me, one of the most important things is fairness and balance,” Prof. Osinbajo told the delegates.” In Zamfara State, the Vice President was welcomed by Governor Bello Matawalle; his deputy, Hassan Nasiha; as well as former governor Abdul’aziz Yari, among other prominent state government officials. Similarly, he was received at the Katsina airport by Governor Aminu Masari and other senior state government officials. During his courtesy calls at the palaces of the Emirs of Zamfara and Katsina, where he also met with members of each State’s Traditional Council of Chiefs, Prof. Osinbajo formally informed the Emirs of his presidential bid, which they commended and gave their royal blessings. Welcoming the Vice President to the State, the Emir of Zamfara-Anka, and Chairman, Zamfara State Council of Chiefs, Attahiru Ahmad, said to the VP: “We adore you for your loyalty to your boss, President Muhammadu Buhari. We also appreciate you for being tenacious, God-fearing, a bridge-builder, and for your intellectual prowess. “These have earned you admiration and support of many Nigerians who support your aspiration to contest for the leadership of our dear country. Your Excellency, we wish you well, we pray to Almighty Allah to help you attain your desire to be President of Nigeria. We wish you success.” Similarly, the Emir of Katsina, Abdulmuminu Usman, said to the VP: “Take it from me, we are behind you; we support you. Someone with experience is a better person than someone who is very new to the administration; so, you are on board already. We will continue to pray for you. By the Grace of God, you are going to make it; we shall pray for you with all our hearts.” Prof. Osinbajo was accompanied on the trips by former Kano State Governor and Senator representing Kano South senatorial district, Senator Kabiru Gaya; the Special Adviser to the President on Political Matters, Senator Babafemi Ojudu, among other senior government officials. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com