Two sitting senators from Ondo State, Ayo Akinyelure and Nicholas Tofowomo, have lost their bid to return to the upper chamber of the National Assembly after losing tickets in the primary election of the Peoples Democratic Party on Monday. Akinyelure is representing Ondo Central Senatorial District while Tofowomo represents Ondo South Senatorial District. In the election held in Akure, the state capital, Akinyelure came second having polled 58 votes behind Mr Ifedayo Adedipe, SAN who scored 82 votes. Tofowomo scored 74 votes behind a former deputy governor of the state, Mr Agboola Ajayi, who polled 78votes. The exercise held in Okitipupa in the Okitipupa Local Government Area of the state. In the Ondo North Senatorial District, Mr Adetokunbo Modupe defeated his opponent, Mr Foluso Adefemi with 124 votes while the latter polled 93 votes. In Ilorin, Kwara State, all the three senatorial candidates emerged through consensus arrangement and affirmation by the party delegates. In Kwara Central, a journalist and former Minister of Sports and Youth Development, Bolaji Abdullahi, emerged the candidate for the senatorial district election. The PUNCH gathered that in Kwara North, a former Commissioner for Local Government and Chieftaincy Affairs, Alhaji Isa Bawa, clinched the ticket to contest the senatorial seat. It was further learnt that a former senator, Rafiu Ibrahim, who served in the 8th Senate during Dr Bukola Saraki’s tenure as President of the Senate, secured the ticket to contest the seat again for Kwara South senatorial district. Kashamu’s son, nephew clinch assembly, Reps tickets in Ogun Rasheed Kashamu, son of the late Ogun State politician and business tycoon, Buruji Kashamu and his nephew, Taiwo Shote, clinched tickets of the PDP to contest seats at the House of Representatives respectively. While Rasheed emerged unopposed for the Ijebu North state constituency 1 (Ijebu Igbo) during the House of Assembly primaries held on Monday in Ijebu-Igbo, in Ijebu North Local Government, Shote won the party’s ticket for Ijebu Ode/Ijebu North-East and Odogbolu Federal Constituency. Shote polled 100 votes to defeat other aspirants. Bauchi speaker gets ticket unopposed, deputy, two ex-commissioners lose out The Deputy Speaker of the Bauchi State House of Assembly, Danlami Kawule, failed to secure the ticket of the PDP to contest a seat in the House of Representatives. Similarly, two former commissioners in the administration of Governor Bala Mohammed, lost their bid to win the party’s ticket for the House of Representatives election. A former Commissioner of Works and a one-time Head of Service in the State, Abdulkadir Ibrahim, who resigned to contest for the PDP ticket of the Alkaleri federal constituency lost to Abdulqadeer Dewu. Similarly, ex-Commissioner of Power, Science and Technology, Maryam Bagel, also lost her bid to get the party’s ticket to contest the Dass/Tafawa Balewa/Bogoro federal constituency currently occupied by a former Speaker of the House of Representatives, Yakubu Dogara. Bagel, who represented Dass Constituency during the 8th Assembly, lost to Kefas Magaji, a former Special Adviser on Legal Matters to Governor Bala Mohammed. Meanwhile, the Speaker of the state House of Assembly, Abubakar Suleiman, was declared winner of the party’s state assembly primary election for Ningi central constituency. Suleiman, who is also the Chairman of the Conference of Speakers of state legislatures of Nigeria, won unopposed with 21 votes. In Oyo, Chief Bisi Ilaka, Former Chief of Staff to the Oyo State Governor, Seyi Makindehas won the Peoples Democratic Party’s ticket to contest  Oyo Central  Senatorial District election in 2023. The returning officer for the election, Mr Olugbenga Adebayo,  announced at the end of the exercise on Monday that Ilaka scored  322 votes, while his close rival Wale Adegoke got 36 votes. In Delta, billionaire lawyer, Ned Nwoko clinched the Delta North senatorial district ticket for the 2023 election. Nwoko, a former member of the House of Representatives, contested the PDP primary election for the third time. Nwoko pulled 242 delegates votes to defeat Mr Paul Osaji who scored 67 votes. For Delta Central, the Deputy National Organising Secretary of the PDP, Mr Ighoyota Amori, scored 143 to defeat a former commissioner for environment, John Nani. In Delta South, a former Chairman, Delta State oil producing area development commission, Michael Diden, scored 176 to defeat his closest rival, Reneju Daniel, who polled 49 votes. In Benue, two incumbent PDP members in the lower chamber—Pam Sokpo (Buruku federal constituency) and Francis Ottah (Ado/Okpokwu/Ogbadibo)—lost the primary election. Meanwhile, a run-off primary election between the daughter of Chief James Ibori, Erhiatake Ibori-Suenu, and her co-aspirant in  Ethiope Federal Constituency, Ben Igbakpa, will hold on Tuesday after the duo recorded a tie at the end of the primary election held in Oghara on Sunday by polling 34 votes each. A statement by Dr Ifeanyi Osuoza, Delta State Publicity Secretary of PDP, noted that the run-off would start by 9am. In Rivers State, Deputy Governor Mrs Ipalibo Harry Banigo won the Rivers West Senatorial primary after she polled a total of 264 votes. Other winners in the state are Hon. Dummamene Dekor, a serving federal lawmaker representing  Khana/Gokana constituency in the lower chamber; Felix Nweke (Eleme/Tai/Oyigbo Federal Constituency) and Kingsley Chindah (Obio/Akpor Federal Constituency). Meanwhile, the Governor of Bayelsa State, Douye Diri, has condemned the killing of one Michael Isaiah during the conduct of the PDP’s primary for the two houses of the National Assembly. The victim was murdered in Ogbia town in the Constituency One of the Ogbia LGA. Diri, who spoke through a statement by his Director, New Media, Kola Oredipe, described the incident as an isolated case in the exercise. Lawmaker clinches ticket for Reps race for 6th time House of Reps member, Apostle Essien Ayi (Akpabuyo/ Bakassi/Calabar), clinched ticket for the 6th time as PDP’s standard-bearer in next year’s election. Ayi polled 57 votes to defeat Mrs. Imana Duke who scored 23 votes. In Odukpani, member representing Odukpani/Calabar Municipal Federal House of Representatives, Mr. Eta Mbora also clinched the PDP ticket to contest again. In Akampka/Biase Federal Constituency,  Mr Austine Aidam, got 43 votes to defeat Messers Bassey Bassey and Inyang Unoh who had 15 and 5 votes respectively; in Abi/Yakurr Federal Constituency Eko Ati polled 33 votes to defeat Mick Eja who polled 30 votes. Ango Abdullahi’s son wins in Kaduna Sadiq, son of the Convener of the Northern Elders Forum, Prof. Ango Abdullahi, won the ticket for Sabon Gari Federal Constituency on the platform of the PDP. He got 28 votes to defeat other aspirants; Hadiza Muhammad, Salisu Abdulhamid and Misis Pauline. Four journalists arrested as Obaseki, Orbih’s factions hold parallel election in Edo One person was shot and four journalists, who covered Dan Orbih faction of the Senate primary election, on Monday in Benin, Edo State were arrested by security operatives. Those arrested are Deborah Coker of News Agency of Nigeria, African Independent Television’s Ohioze Inarumen and his assistant, and Independent Television and Radio Correspondent,  Ogbomo Osamuyi. They were on their way to the Sam Ogbemudia Stadium to catch up with proceedings at the Governor Godwin Obaseki faction polls when the were arrested along Airport Road by a combined team of Edo Security Network, men of the State Vigilante and Police. They were late released at 5.25 pm, according to Coker. Meanwhile, the former Majority leader of Edo State House of Assembly, Mathew Iduriyekemwen, emerged as the candidate defeating the incumbent Senator Mathew Uroghide, while Hon Ogbeide Ihama emerged the candidate at the Orbih led delegates. In Edo Central senatorial district, ex-Minister of Works under former President Goodluck Jonathan, Dr. Arch. Mike Onolememen, picked ticket in Orbih while Hon Clifford Ordia, the two term incumbent senator emerged in the Obaseki’s led faction. In Edo North, Hon Pascal Ugbome, emerged the candidate of the Orbih’s led primary while Victoria Edelokun won the ticket at the Obaseki faction primary. Ward five chairman, Tunde Igbinoba, was shot at the Orbih’s held election. He is said to receiving treatment at an unknown hospital as at press time. In Gombe, a youth was reportedly killed in Billiri LGA and an police officer was pelted with stones by irate supporters of opposing camps in PDP primary election for Billiri/Balanga Federal Constituency. The state Police Commissioner, Ishola  Babaita, confirmed the incident but debunked the killing was linked to the voting process. Ali Isa won the constituency’s ticket, winning 43 votes out of 61 to defeat Rambi Ayala, representing Biliri East in the state house of assembly who scored nine votes. The PDP conducted primary election for the 24 seats of the Gombe State Assembly and five house of representatives seat with the exclusion of Dukku/Nafada.  All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com