Geely Automobile Holdings has entered into a share subscription agreement and a joint venture agreement to acquire 34.02 per cent shares of Renault Korea Motors. The agreement was subsequent to a framework signed in January 2022. On completion, Geely Automobile Holdings via its subsidiary, Centurion Industries Limited, will hold 34.02 per cent of the total issued share capital of RKM. Renault Group remains the majority shareholder in RKM and will continue to fully consolidate the entity, according to a statement by Geely. In January 2022, Geely auto parent company, Geely Holding Group and Renault Group jointly announced a new collaboration dedicated to bringing an all-new vehicle lineup of fuel-efficient Hybrid Electric Vehicles and Internal Combustion Engine models to the South Korean market as well as exploring overseas sales. The new vehicles will be produced at the current Renault Korea Motors facility in Busan, South Korea, with volume production forecast to begin in 2024. The new products will utilise Geely Holding Group’s Compact Modular Architecture developed by Geely Holding Group’s R&D centre in Sweden, as well as taking advantage of the Geely Holding Group’s advanced hybrid powertrain technologies. Renault and RKM will contribute their cutting-edge technologies, expertise in design and customer experience, to exceed the local market expectations, the statement said. The new product range will be sold through the existing RKM sales and aftersales network. RKM after sales have been ranked the first for six consecutive years until 2021 in the domestic automotive consumer survey of Consumer Insight. Both companies said they are fully committed to Renault Korea Motors by introducing new product portfolios that will lead to greater market share in the South Korean domestic market whilst exploring export market opportunities. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com