The Chief Executive Officer, Commonwealth Enterprise and Investment Council, Mrs. Rosie Glazebrook, has said that the Commonwealth Business Forum is aimed at rebuilding and reinvigorating the global economy post-COVID. Speaking with journalists in Lagos, Glazebrook described CBF 2022, slated for June in Rwanda, as a truly global event that would bring together heads of government, ministers and senior business leaders from around the world. Glazebrook also said that Commonwealth, through a meeting of heads of governments, would look at the leadership role it and the private sector could play in accomplishing this. Explaining further, she said that the forum would also provide a valuable opportunity for high-level dialogue on trade and investment between business and government leaders from across the Commonwealth and beyond. She added that the platform would also enable the voice of Nigerian businesses to be heard right across the globe and provide maximum visibility and connections that could benefit them. Glazerook, however, stressed that the purpose of her visit was to raise awareness about the CBF 2022, meet the council’s existing and prospective strategic partners and encourage the chambers of commerce in Nigeria to take their members to the CBF 2022. “The CHOGM will be returning to Africa after quite a long time. We are delighted that His Excellency, President Paul Kagame of Rwanda will be opening the business forum while the Prime Minister of the United Kingdom, Mr. Boris Johnson, will be attending the CBF 2022 as well as The Prince of Wales. One of the key themes of the CBF will be energy and energy security. “Nigerian strategic partners will be sitting on the panel sessions at this event and will speak to a global audience across the Commonwealth businesses. “His Excellency, President Muhammadu Buhari will also be attending the CHOGM meeting. I think from the perspective of the CWEIC, we want to encourage as many businesses as possible from Nigeria to bring delegations and to have their voices heard at this important event. I am delighted that so many of them are planning to attend.” “I am very pleased to meet with many of our strategic partners and also potential partners. There are a number of businesses being invited to join our network in this meeting to understand our priorities.” Glazebrook described the CWEIC as an enabler of businesses by providing access to key decision-makers in government and other businesses for its members wherever there were obstacles that had to do with policy issues or challenges of having visibility at the right place. “We are able to use our hub network and access to different organisations at very senior levels.  This will help Nigerian companies to have their voices heard in an international context. So, we bring together people with the common aim to provide visibility and access to key decision-makers in government and other businesses.” She also said that the CWEIC would provide a platform and stimulate discussion on Nigeria’s transition from fossil to cleaner energies.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com