The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission says it is monitoring the source of the funds used in purchasing political party forms. The Chairman of the EFCC, Abdulrasheed Bawa, said this on Channels Television’s Politics Today programme on Friday. The ruling All Progressives Congress had pegged its presidential forms at N100m while the main opposition Peoples Democratic Party sold its form for N41m. So far, 20 people have obtained the APC forms while at least 17 people purchased the forms of the PDP. Reacting to the development, Bawa said the EFCC was working with the Independent National Electoral Commission to establish the source of these funds. The EFCC boss noted that N100m was a lot of money as most people would not see it in their lifetime. He added, “Well, of course, it is quite some money. It could take a lifetime for you to save N40m or N100m but as you know, when it comes to the issue of monitoring of election funds and candidates’ funds, it is mainly the work of INEC but we are working hand-in-hand with INEC and other related agencies to ensure that we follow the money and know the source, whether it is legitimate or illegitimate. That is our concern.” The EFCC boss also said the commission was working to ensure that corrupt persons do not attain positions of leadership in the country. Bawa said the anti-graft agency was already working behind the scenes to expose these unscrupulous elements. “Above all, we are concerned about good governance, transparency and accountability. We are also concerned about ensuring that corrupt elements are not given leadership positions in this country and that is why we are working behind the scenes to ensure that at least we make our position known on certain actors within the political space in this country,” he added. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com