The Senate President, Ahmad Lawan, has stated that one of his priorities if voted as the President is to reform the education sector. Lawan stated this while speaking to delegates in Minna, the Niger State capital, on Monday ahead of the All Progressive Congress primary. The Senate President stated that he benefited immensely from the educational system of the country. Therefore, there is a need to revamp the system. He said, “We have to educate our youth and give them the best education at primary and secondary schools as future leaders. I will reform the educational system, the opportunity to develop the country. “Until we equip the youth with the right quality of education, they will not be the kind of leaders we need.” He added that to overcome the security challenges bedeviling the country, education has to be prioritised. Lawan said, “For our tomorrow to be better and our today peaceful, we have to educate our youth, give them the best possible education and make our public schools very stable. “Until sons and daughters of nobody go to school, stay in school, and complete primary and secondary school and even if they don’t proceed to tertiary institutions, they have a decent life to live so I promise to reform the education system.” Senator Lawan explained that he is competent, capable and experienced to take Nigeria out of its present predicament like poverty and insecurity, bedeviling the nation. He said, “We need to consider our architecture of security and I believe in season participation in security. I want to see a situation where citizens who give information are protected and traditional institutions play a role in the security of the country. That will be my priority, to build on the success of Buhari.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com