FOR the first time, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole took my advice to contest the presidency of Nigeria instead of localising himself and further debasing his remaining reputation as a progressive. It is on that ground I hold him to task on his claims to progressivism outside politics of exclusivism, which I see as politics of ethnocentrism. For a fact, Oshiomhole’s presidential aspiration means many things to many people across Nigeria’s political strata, including some of us in the progressive flank who have shared common affinities with him in the past. I supported Oshiomhole’s presidential declaration on two broad grounds: to advance the course of his political career, rather than lowering himself to a senatorial district contest that merely reduces his personage as a former President of the Nigeria Labour Congress, former Governor of Edo State and a former National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress. By his anticipated presidential declaration, he has risen over the labyrinth of retrogressive politics with the axiom that victory can only come through trying. Even if Oshiomhole loses at the poll, it would mean that no one person can win all his battles, except God gives him victory, which he reasserted when he was removed unceremoniously as APC National Chairman. Second, is the fact that while his peers are going for the presidency of the country, he relapsed to a mere senatorial contest. It’s on record that since the Fourth Republic, South-West has had the presidency for eight years under President Olusegun Obasanjo and they are having it now for another eight years under the auspices of Prof Yemi Osinbajo’s vice presidency. If the argument is that the South-East is yet to have it since 1999, even when northern politicians are also jostling for it, then nothing disqualifies an Oshiomhole of South-South from taking a shot. After all, up till the moment he declared his ambition, there was no other presidential aspirant that had declared from South-South on the platform of APC except Rotimi Amaechi. Even then, none of the presidential aspirants has articulated an altruistic manifesto to douse the ruins they’ve collectively foisted on the country. If Oshiomhole’s speech at his presidential declaration last Thursday is anything to go by, the Northern oligarchs who profit from the deprivation of their people through deliberate illiteracy and poor policies foisted to perpetually hold their people down under poverty, hunger, kidnapping, Boko Haram insurgency, banditry and ISWAP dislocations and deaths would be waiting for him at the corner for a political pound of flesh. So, saying that “he would do a number of things differently to liberate Nigeria and restructure the economy in the context of APC’s change” mantra could be his personal albatross at the polls. In his declaration speech, Oshiomhole pointed out that job, poverty and insecurity were all interrelated. He advised Nigerians to stop agonising and start engaging, conversing, organising and mobilising even as he observed that the process might not be easy. He dwelt on the crisis in the education sector, asking how realistic it was in the modern-day for Nigeria to pay N450,000 to a professor. He zeroed on the Academic Staff Union of Universities, saying many Nigerians see ASUU as a union that creates problems. Oshiomhole disagreed. He harped on the point that textile industries were created in all the regions but that those industries were killed by incoherent trade, business and industrial policies. He posited that unemployment was not created by poverty but by policies that were not clearly planned and implemented. He faulted the contributory pension scheme for workers, saying that “what workers have contributed in the last five years is zero courtesy of the twin-evil of devaluation and double-digit inflation.” Beautiful presidential speech which is typical, as usual, of his oratorical prowess. But in his speech, I noticed, however, that Oshiomhole tends to distinguish himself from the rest of the lots in the APC with their on-your-face-insult of “I will continue the good work of the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.) from where he stops, if elected as president! Good job indeed! So, what are the good works of the Buhari regime that can compare side by side with its long list of evils, corruption, nepotism, bigotry, insecurity, hunger, poverty, violence, destruction and deaths? If Bola Tinubu, Osinbajo, Amaechi, Rochas Okorocha, Godswill Akpabio and the rest of them in the APC could see the destruction of education; the collapse of the nation’s security architecture; activation of composite corruption; ruination of the economy; seeking medical treatment in foreign lands as good jobs they hoped to continue with, if elected president, then the devil has no better incarnate than an APC-elected Nigerian president! The problem with Nigeria is the veneration of political charlatans by the citizens who talk blithely and blandly about them because the so-called leaders are in possession of national stolen wealth. This poor and inept cast of leadership is the reason Nigeria has refused to congeal and coalesce into organic nationhood. From the foregoing, 2023 will be another rehearsed ritual if the citizens’ conquered hearts and minds remained the same. Erasmus Ikhide writes via ikhideerasmus@gmail.com Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com