The Nigeria Country Office of the Joint United Nations Programme on HIV/AIDS and the African Business Coalition for Health have signed a Memorandum of Understanding to partner on joint initiatives that will expand access and quality of HIV/AIDS and health services in Nigeria and across Africa. The MoU, which was signed by UNAIDS Country Director, Dr Erasmus Morah, and ABCHealth Chief Executive Officer, Dr Mories Atoki, spells out the areas of cooperation which encapsulates UNAIDS’ strategic priorities as articulated in the Global AIDS Strategy 2021-2026 and ABCHealth’s strategic priorities which include leveraging partnerships to drive sustainable development in Nigeria’s health space and Africa at large. Speaking after the signing, Morah expressed his optimism about the opportunities the MoU would present adding that the partnership would bridge the gap in access to healthcare services, especially regarding HIV. He said, “I am delighted to sign this MoU between the UNAIDS Country Office for Nigeria and ABCHealth, to signify the growing partnership between our two organizations. We both share the common goal of playing a more enhanced role in Nigeria’s HIV and health sector response, to accelerate equitable access to care, address institutional barriers to social justice and mobilise stakeholders in more fully resourcing for health. “I eagerly look forward to using the opportunity of our new relationship to reduce inequalities that increase people’s vulnerability and put communities at the centre of the response to HIV, including on other health challenges such as COVID-19.” On the other hand, Chief Executive Officer for Aliko Dangote Foundation and Board Director for ABCHealth, Zouera Youssoufou, commented on the far-reaching benefits of the partnership between ABCHealth and UNAIDS. She said, “Since our inception, we have been building the coalition into a powerful force that can make a real impact by putting action into words. Africa’s health and healthcare industry need to be reformed and developed; COVID-19 revealed this much. “However, leaving this responsibility to governments alone is not realistic – Africa’s private sector must play its part. Our founders recognize this and have set up ABCHealth to provide a platform that corporates, businesses, philanthropists and development institutions can trust to support their commitment to developing the continent’s health space.” The Chief Executive Officer for ABCHealth, Dr Atoki, concluded saying, “Africa’s health sector is about to experience a significant shift due to the increasing interest that critical stakeholders in both the private and public sectors are showing in terms of enhancing health outcomes and improving livelihoods. We, therefore, urge everyone to join forces with our Coalition so that we can achieve the desired impact.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com