The Joint Admissions and Matriculations Board on Thursday said it would further screen 27,105 results of candidates who wrote the 2022 Unified Tertiary Matriculation Examination. The board also noted that it had withheld 69 results so far. The PUNCH had earlier reported that the board’s Registrar, Prof Isiaq Oloyede, had said JAMB would screen results of candidates before releasing them. In the statistics made available via the official Twitter handle of the board, @jAMBHQ, the board noted that 1,761,338 candidates registered for the 2022 UTME. JAMB noted that only 1,671,203 results out of the 1,707,626 candidates who sat for the examination were released. 27,105 results, according to JAMB, would be subjected to further screening. The board said 69 results were withheld while 1,783 candidates would be rescheduled to write the exam as a result of biometric challenges. The PUNCH reports that the 2022 UTME examination, unlike previous years, was said to be a huge success. Despite initial challenges, such as high diesel cost, JAMB collaborated with examination centres in the procurement of diesel.The board also noted that it would subsequently adopt the use of laptops for examinations. It stated, “For effective delivery of its UTME at the various computer-based training centres nationwide, JAMB has concluded plans to phase out the use of zero thin-client computers from the conduct of its UTME. “Hence, the major drawback against a zero thin-client configuration is that once the memory of the server is exhausted, or if there is any network disruption, all connected users are simultaneously affected, thereby impacting multiple candidates at once in the centre. “This policy direction is one of the measures being contemplated to address the issue of examination disruptions holistically. Consequently, the board, in consideration of the immense benefits to candidates and centres alike is requesting its partnering centres to begin to plan for obtaining mini PCs that are cheap to procure, easy to operate, and more efficient in power consumption.”  All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com