A presidential aspirant on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party for the 2023 general election, Bala Mohammed, has lamented the spate of insecurity and poverty in Nigeria. Mohammed who is the governor of Bauchi State also condemned the constant borrowings by the regime of the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), since he took over the leadership of the country in 2015. The governor decried the situation of the country while speaking with Nasarawa State PDP delegates in Lafia on Tuesday to seek their support for his presidential ambition. He said, “Insecurity and poverty are everywhere and nobody cares. We are taking loans every day. Our federal, state and local governments may soon collapse because the money that we are generating from the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation is being used to service depts. “The road from Abuja to Kano is costing N750 billion. That is over-bloated by the corrupt regime of this administration. These monies can construct all the roads in Northern Nigeria.” The PDP presidential aspirant said he had great leadership skills to reposition the country if elected into office in 2023 but emphasised that he would obey the party’s decision if the position is zoned to a particular part of the country. “I am running for President in 2023 because I have so much knowledge of the economy and how to tackle insecurity. I am ready to lead Nigeria to greatness and I know that I have the pedigree, antecedents, and experience to make our country great. “Some of these ideas are what I have been using to build peace in Bauchi State. That is why we do not have any problems there. “If I am elected as President in 2023, apart from other great innovations that I will implement to improve our economy, I will redefine our security architecture and ensure that we have a good recruitment process where every portion of the country will be well represented so that our teeming youths will have equal opportunities to get government jobs. “But if our great party, the PDP says it is zoning the Presidency to a particular place or person through consensus, I will accept. However, I appeal that we should create a level playing field for everybody. What we need is unity, love, justice and equity”, Mohammed said. Chairman of PDP in the state, Francis Orogu, who spoke on behalf of the delegates, said they were yet to adopt an aspirant they would vote for in the forthcoming presidential primary election but assured that they would support an aspirant who would develop all sectors of the country when elected into office. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com