The governorship candidate of Young Progressives Party in Ekiti State, Debo Ajayi, on Monday expressed confidence of winning the June 18 election in the state, saying that Ekiti people would always gravitate to a good leader when they discovered one. Ajayi said that despite the noise of the “so-called big parties”, it was quite obvious that the Ekiti electorate are still looking for the right person. “This is good for YPP because by the time we roll out our manifesto, they will realise that I am the person they are looking for,” he said. The YPP candidate, who had served as commissioner for Budget and Economic Planning and as well for Trade, Investments and Innovation, said in a chat in Ado Ekiti that he would deploy his competence, qualities, professional experience and global exposure to tackle the problems facing the state which had made life difficult for the people. He said, “Our people will gravitate to cooperate to support a good leader when they find one. I am the right person to govern Ekiti this time because I will be the first governor who had served the state in a rural service manner before becoming governor. “I am the only candidate who has a combination of decades of international experience with local service records. The translation is that I know how many communities around the world address similar socio-economic problems that we are facing in Ekiti. “I have been here long enough, over 10 years now, to actually understand the problems of our people. I know what the problems are and I know what the aggravations and agitations are. I know how to solve them. I elected to be here as a sacrifice. I was managing director of a global company and I accepted to come and serve as commissioner”. The YPP flag bearer, who is from Ekiti South Senatorial District which has yet to produce a governor, described himself as a competent professional with the requisites to, in a sustainable manner, deal with the issues of pension and gratuities which had accumulated over the years. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com