As the world marked the 2022 ‘Stop Food Waste Day,’ experts have said food wastage will lead to more hunger and poverty. The annual ‘Stop Food Waste Day’ was celebrated last Wednesday in April as a reminder on the importance of food and why it is essential to curb its wastage. Speaking in a chat with our correspondent, an Assistant Chief Dietician at the Ajeromi General Hospital in Lagos, Dr Olusola Malomo decried the spate of food loss and wastage across the country and the world. He admitted that the trend was not just a humanitarian crisis, but also a serious environmental challenge, urging Nigerians and the global community to leave no room for food loss and waste. He said the amount of food frittered away on a daily basis would suffice to “feed every undernourished person in the world today”. “Wastage of food is directly proportional to hunger and poverty, which invariably means the more wastage of food, the more hunger,” Malomo said. He suggested that a transformative overhaul of the country’s food technology and proper management of the food processing systems. Also, in a recently published report, the United Nations’ Food and Agriculture Organisation noted that the number of hungry people in the world had been on a steady rise since 2014, with several tons of edible food either lost or wasted. The FAO said, “Globally, around 14 per cent of food produced is lost between harvest and retail, while an estimated 17 per cent of total global food production is wasted – with 11 per cent in households waste; five per cent in the food service and two per cent in retail.”  All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com