Politics narrowly conceived as the process by which political leaders are thrown up, offices distributed and administered has never served Nigeria well. Mr. Peter Obi, former Governor of Anambra State and presidential aspirant, before he stormed out of the Peoples Democratic Party a few days ago, pinpointed the bedlam and abnormalities in the ongoing party primaries aptly: “Businessmen are looking for dollars to run their businesses while aspirants to high office are spraying dollars to woo delegates to vote for them.” Truth be told, in some respects, the military were better managers of resources and more objective, though not necessarily transparent, as administrators than the current set of politicians. This is not a defence of military rule against which I crusaded as students’ union leader and national columnist. But it should at least hint at the level of depravity to which what goes for politics and governance in Nigeria has sunk. As this column is being typed, there has been no electricity for three consecutive days in my neighbourhood and nobody has explained why this characteristic deficit has persisted. But for the ubiquitous generator, it would have been impossible to turn in this script. Times without number, the national electricity grid has collapsed and what we get at the end of the day are lame excuses or alibis. Needless to say that this is only one example of the human condition in Nigeria as the campaigns for offices in the forthcoming elections proceed. The governance omissions and logjams are myriad; they include the closure of university campuses for over a hundred days as a result of protracted strikes by teachers and administrators, the inflation rate, rising to a crescendo, eating deeply into the comfort zone of salary earners many of who get broke midway through the month; gripping insecurity constantly claiming lives and limbs, soaring debt crises as well as decay in health and infrastructure. Given this background, the question to raise is: Are these campaigns, seriously speaking, about improving the living conditions of Nigerians or are they vanity shows and ego displays in the search for power? I doubt it because one of the people aspiring for the presidential office said that he had been in power at various levels for 23 years, in other words since 1999 when the Fourth Republic began. Another one said recently that he had been a legislator since 1999 and has garnered considerable experience in law-making. The point to make is that if the experiences were accumulated in a better governed country, it would have been a plus. But knowing, as we do, that matters have gone from bad to worse over the years with every successive government performing poorer than the one it displaced, this marathon expertise can certainly not be a qualification for recycling them into more responsibility. One feels like shouting: What exactly were you doing in the various offices you have held when the country has so badly degenerated during your periods of service? One of the giveaways indicating that most of the campaign speeches we have listened to so far are insincere is that they are promising us the promised land, without as much as indicating that the journey there will not be an urbane cruise from the current dystopia. It beggars belief for someone to promise that he will institute world-class education in our universities within a few years considering how badly torpedoed the current state of affairs is. To be credible, such a promise ought to flash that such a journey will be in stages and that the terminus may take two decades given that it is easier to destroy than to reconstruct. Any presidential aspirant promising to revive our fallen institutions in four years, even eight, is being less than honest and has decided to substitute sugar-coated rhetoric for the hard work of governance. Is this the time for rosy promises or one for hard-headed analysis tinged with visionary arithmetic? The point here is that on several fronts Nigeria is in a crisis of governance, of institutional decay and of an economy careering out of control. You don’t resolve a crisis by mere rhetoric unless you are joking or merely playing on words. Take for example the vexing issue of national insecurity. The Governor of Kaduna State, Mallam Nasir El-Rufai, revealed the other day that the Ansaru terrorists are currently present and operating in some parts of Kaduna State. Of course, this is not the first time that a governor will make such a revelation. El-Rufai’s revelation is actually frightening when you consider that Ansaru is practicing a form of insurgent governance in which terrorists carry out civic duties, distribute food to the poor, collect taxes and even defend indigenes against bandits. Anyone familiar with the trajectory of this radical sect knows that what they are doing is a preface and forewarning to the long-term occupation of places where they settle. It is amazing that Nigeria has been reduced to a guinea pig callously used for experiments by foreign adventurers disguising themselves as charity organizations or evangelists. This is just one dimension of the sinister growth and development of terrorism in Nigeria which, for some reason, the authorities have been unable, for several years, to vanquish. Any prospective leader promising to turn the tide must not invest in glib catchphrases and sound bites but must show clarity about the nature of the current danger in its many manifestations. As far as I have seen, it does not appear that many of our aspirants at national and sub-national levels have studied the problem seriously much less proffer workable solutions to it. It is no use regretting that, to borrow a religious aphorism, tares were sown by Nigeria’s adversaries while its leaders slept. Tempting as that is, what is more important, going forward, is that if Nigeria will become a more habitable place in the near future, then those who are seeking leadership positions ought to show that they have the acumen and authority to tackle the multidimensional crises that the country currently finds itself engulfed. The economy is another sore area of concern, for a sick economy and a weak pocketbook are precursors to social restiveness, youth revolts and other forms of unpleasantness. We may not necessarily require an economics expert to rule us but someone ignorant or poorly informed about the way global and national economies work will be a disaster, not the least because he can easily be arm-twisted by global institutions and national technocrats. With the debt rate so high and economies around the world so fragile, someone who has a good grasp of economics will fit the bill. Unfortunately, however, the playing field has been twisted in such ways that intellectuals who have no godfathers cannot even afford to pay the costs of expression of interest and nomination forms thereby locking them out of the power arena. On current terms, the chances of the election year becoming the beginning of a rebirth for the country are not bright. We must keep hope alive, notwithstanding and encourage the citizenry going through tempestuous times to make the wisest judgment possible in the circumstances. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com