SEGUN ADEWOLE writes on the activities of commercial motorcyclists, popularly known as Okada riders in Lagos, as well as the recent and the past bans by the state government When most Lagosians had forgotten that there was a ban on the activities of commercial motorcyclists, popularly known as Okada riders, the Lagos State Government announced a total ban on such activities in six local government areas on Wednesday in the state. On February 1, 2020, the state government placed a similar ban on Okada. Still, its enforcement was weak, with the riders operating above the law. At a meeting with security agents where he announced the affected LGAs to be Ikeja, Surulere, Eti-Osa, Lagos Mainland, Lagos Island, and Apapa, Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu said, “This is the phased banning that we are going to be embarking on so that others will know that in a short while it is either they get out or look for something else to do.” The governor pointed out that the state might soon become unattractive to Okada riders, especially those who have become a menace. Giving reasons for the ban, Sanwo-Olu said, “We will not sit back and watch criminally-minded people use that mode of transportation (motorcycles) to perpetrate crimes and criminality in Lagos. Lives are being lost daily, preventable accidents happen every day, and the riders do not respect our traffic laws. “The situation has led to a complete breakdown of law and order. This ban has come to stay, and we will not tolerate any weakness in enforcement.” The criminality of Okada riders Sanwo-Olu’s announcement came days after a sound engineer, David Imoh, was lynched by a mob of Okada riders in the Lekki area of the state. News of the lynching was followed by tales from Lagosians on social media about how armed robbers and ritualists are now using Okada business to make Lagos unsafe, especially at night. People who wrote on Twitter said many of the Okada riders believed to be from northern Nigeria are actually from neighbouring countries like Chad Republic, Niger Republic, and Cameroon. They are said to operate like a mob and are ever-ready to engage in a fight to support one of their own. Confirming this, former presidential aide, Reno Omokri, tweeted, “The South-West may not realise what is happening. Okada riders have invaded them. Many are foreigners. They breed more than their ‘hosts’ and are prepared to bleed you if you try to curb their speed of taking over. The South-West elders are fiddling as the South-West is on the brink! #TableShaker.” Also, one @Femmy_Balogun said, “I don’t think Lagos is as safe as many had thought. These guys from the north are all around us. They came in the disguise of business, ‘Okada.’ They gradually believe they own Lagos too. #JusticeforDave.” Since the ban on Okada riders was announced, the Lagos State Police Command ensured its enforcement by clamping down on their activities. Enforcement agencies have seized over 300 motorbikes. The Commissioner of Police, CP Abiodun Alabi, while speaking on Channels Television’s Sunrise Daily programme, confirmed that many were using Okada as a kind of disguise to perpetuate their crime in many communities. “We have arrested so many of them with locally made pistols in their operations, and many have been charged to court. But we know that they are using Okada as a disguise to perpetuate their crime in many communities. “And that’s why we have been having a lot of dialogue, consultations, and meetings with their union. In doing that, I believe that the best way out is to get them off our roads. Most of them are masquerading as Okada riders, but they are criminals,” CP Alabi said. Before Imoh’s killing, there had been concern over the motorcyclists. On April 26, 2022, Okada riders and members of the transport union in the state clashed in the Iyana Iba/Alaba Rago and Ojo areas of the state. This was quelled by operatives of the Police Command who were deployed in the area. In December 2021, two Okada riders were arraigned before an Ejigbo Magistrates’ Court for allegedly beating up two police officers and damaging two police patrol vans. The Okada riders identified as Jimoh Lasisi and Femi Ajayi were said to have committed the offences on November 22 and 25, 2021, at Jakande Estate Gate, Ejigbo. On September 23, 2021, some policemen deployed in the Ajao Estate area of the state were attacked by Okada riders who shot one of them dead in the process of resisting the attempt to restrict their activities. Passengers lament ahead of hard times When the recklessness of Okada riders was becoming a thing to worry about, Gokaka, Max.ng, and Opay entered the commercial motorcycle business in Lagos and operated like Uber and the likes. These began to take a huge chunk of passengers from Okada riders as many preferred the sanity they brought into the business. However, they were lumped alongside Okada riders when the Lagos State Government announced a ban on commercial motorcyclists on January 27, 2020, which took effect on February 1, 2020. However, they did not fully enforce the ban after the lockdowns that followed the COVID-19 pandemic. Many Okada riders defied the ban and operated like it was never there. In contrast, the organised ones like Opay, Max.ng, and Gokada never returned. This left many Lagosians with no choice but to use Okada, as it was the only means to get to the state’s inner streets. The #EndSARS protests of October 2022 saw the full return of motorbikes on highways as many police and security operatives who would have enforced the ban had gone into hiding due to the attacks they suffered at the hands of hoodlums. With this new ban being enforced, many Lagosians lament the hardship they will be exposed to. Most passengers in the Apapa area of the state who spoke to our correspondent expressed the belief that the ban was not well thought out by the government. The port area in Apapa has always been known to be a place prone to heavy traffic because of the activities of trucks. Some commercial buses often avoid the area, especially the Tincan Port area, leaving people with Okada as the only transportation alternative. One Kelechi who goes to work in Lagos Island from the area on weekdays wonders how he will cope when the Okada ban is fully enforced. “We’ll now be left with the option of long trekking distances. This will not only get one tired before getting to work where strength is needed but will leave one looking rough and dusty,” he said. Also, one Tunde who is a car owner but has been using Okada to beat traffic lamented that he “will now have to contend with traffic if I decide to start using my car again.” Tinuke, a trader in the Ikeja area of the state, urged the police to boost security at night to prevent people returning from their place of work from getting robbed. “Okada sometimes helps us breeze through traffic. When we need to get home fast after closing late at night, it’s Okada we usually take. But now, we may have to trek, exposing us to robbery attacks. I urge the police to ensure security measures to protect people,” she said. Passengers risk arrest for flouting ban – Police The Public Relations Officer, Lagos Police Command, SP Benjamin Hundeyin, has said passengers of motorbikes caught in prohibited areas will be arrested alongside the riders. “Under the new total ban of motorcycles in six local government areas of Lagos State, passengers and riders alike will be arrested and prosecuted. The passenger is an accomplice. Ignorance will not be an excuse!” Hundeyin tweeted. When our correspondent reached out to him to know if any passenger had since been arrested during the recent clampdown on Okada riders, the Police Spokesman said, “No.” He said this can only happen from “June 12 under the new total ban as seen in my tweet.” He said the current ban, which had been in existence since February 2020, doesn’t include the arrest of passengers of motorbikes that defy the order. With the ban taking full effect on June 1, it will not only be passengers who will have challenges to face but also security operatives, going by the penchant of Okada riders to flout laws. This time around, citizens will want to see how long the enforcement will be in place and how well security operatives will be able to keep the state safe from the criminality that might arise as a result of many Okada riders going jobless.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com