Former Super Eagles captain, Joseph Yobo, has begged delegates of the All Progressive Congress, Peoples Democratic Party and other political platforms to consider the future of Nigerian children before casting votes for inept aspirants. The ex-footballer who is also Board of Trustees Chairman of the Grassroots Mobilisation Initiative for Good Governance made the appeal at a situation assessment meeting held on Thursday in Abuja. In attendance at the meeting were National Coordinator, Samaila Musa; National Secretary, Tracy Kanu-Ejim; BoT Secretary, Onwuka Richards; BoT Member, Ayo Faseke, and all Zonal and State Coordinators. Yobo said with what Nigerians have seen happening at different primaries in the last few days, it had become imperative to call the attention of all the various delegates not to give in to greed or temptations in the buildup to the 2023 general elections. “We noted that the usual desperate efforts being exerted by politicians to gain the support of their party delegates by every means and tactic, including compromise through financial seduction is at an alarming high. “The presidential contests in the two major parties the ruling All Progressives Congress and main opposition Peoples Democratic Party are causing apprehension. “The delegates, who are by every implication, representatives of the various and collective interests of the entire nation for the moment, must therefore resist every temptation that would make them betray the trust reposed on them by God and man. “We, therefore, call on all party delegates to eschew personal temptations and place the nation’s interest and the future of our children above every other consideration. “Delegates must avoid costly adventures that would end up producing incompetent and inept political leaders who will continue to exploit the people, thereby thriving on emotional-driven courses, sowing seed of communal discord, causing divisions and leaving the people more unsecured and impoverished,” he said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com