Sickle cell disease is a group of inherited red blood cell disorders. Healthy red blood cells are round, and they move through small blood vessels to carry oxygen to all parts of the body. In someone who has SCD, the red blood cells become hard and sticky and look like a C-shaped farm tool called a “sickle.” The sickle cells die early, which causes a constant shortage of red blood cells. Also, when they travel through small blood vessels, they get stuck and clog the blood flow. This can cause pain and other serious problems such as infection, acute chest syndrome and stroke. The most common symptom of sickle cell disease is acute pain. Pain can affect any part of the body, but the abdomen is one of the most affected areas. The abdomen includes organs located between the chest and groin. Its exact etiology is not known. Abdominal pain is an important component of vaso-occlusive painful crises. Abdominal pain usually happens when sickle cells block blood flow and prevent oxygen delivery to the abdomen. The exact cause is often unknown, because many organ complications can cause pain in people with SCD.  Abdominal pain due to sickle cell vaso-occlusive crisis is often indistinguishable from an acute intra-abdominal disease process such as acute cholecystitis, acute pancreatitis, hepatic infarction, ischemic colitis and acute appendicitis. In the majority of cases, no specific cause is identified, and spontaneous resolution does occur. What is an abdominal pain crisis? Abdominal pain is pain that you feel anywhere between your chest and groin. It can feel like sharp cramps or aches. Inflammation or diseases that affect the organs in the abdomen cause abdominal pain.  Major organs in the abdomen include appendix, gallbladder, intestines (small and large), kidneys, liver, pancreas, spleen and stomach. There are a few types of abdominal pain, depending on the location of the pain and how often it occurs. Generalised pain is felt in more than half of the abdomen and is usually caused by a virus or indigestion. Localised pain is felt in only one area of the abdomen and is more likely to be a sign of a problem in an organ. Colicky pain starts and ends suddenly and is often severe. Causes of abdominal pain crisis Acute abdominal pain is a common symptom with people with sickle cell disease and caused by many conditions. Common and possible causes include constipation with faecal impaction, acute abdominal sickling (also called abdominal painful crisis, girdle syndrome), gastroenteritis, urinary tract infection, acid reflux (heartburn/indigestion), stomach flu, stress and vomiting Why does sickle cell disease cause abdominal pain? Acute pain crises are the most common cause of abdominal pain for people with SCD. They happen when sickled red blood cells block blood flow and prevent oxygen delivery to different parts of the body. Pain can happen anywhere in the body and in more than one spot at a time. The abdomen is a common area where people with SCD experience pain crises. The abdomen can be the only area affected, or it may cause generalized pain in other parts of the body. Abdominal pain is hard to manage because it can also be caused by other acute complications of SCD, which can be as a result of lack of oxygen because of blocked blood flow can lead to acute chest syndrome, acute pain crises, joint problems, and stroke.  A specific cause is rarely identified.  Further complications of SCD that may also cause abdominal pain include acute pancreatitis, gallstones, Ischemic colitis, liver disease and splenic sequestration. Abdominal pain is a common symptom of sickle cell disease however, not all abdominal pain in sickle cell disease is due to vaso occlusive crisis.   However, sometimes, distinguishing abdominal crisis pain from the pain of appendicitis pain in a patient with SCD is challenging. The presentation of acute appendicitis in patients with SCD is likely to include vomiting and pain localised to the lower abdomen; these symptoms usually are absent in an SCD-related pain crisis. Fever might not be present in cases of appendicitis due to the patient’s use of analgesics such as acetaminophen and NSAIDs before presentation. Furthermore, appendicitis in SCD patients appears to be attributable to vaso occlusion leading to microvascular congestion, in contrast with the general population, in whom the pathogenesis typically is appendiceal obstruction leading to luminal and outer-calibre dilation.   When it is a solitary complaint, it mimics a wide range of abdominal surgical emergencies which may trick the clinician to offer surgical intervention with its attendant risks. How is abdominal pain prevented and treated? Abdominal pain may be reduced by preventing acute pain crises. Prevention of abdominal pain may involve treatments such as transfusions, and hydration. Treatment depends on the exact cause, but usually includes drugs to help with the pain. Some ways to prevent pain crises include Avoiding extreme temperatures and high altitudes Chronic blood transfusions to reduce pain episodes and stroke Drinking plenty of water Treatment with the drug crizanlizumab-tmca Treatment with the drug hydroxurea Vaccinations and antibiotics to prevent infections Treatment of abdominal pain crisis Abdominal pain is first treated with hydration, pain medications, and other supportive measures. When symptoms worsen and doctors can diagnose specific organ failure, they may consider surgery. Sources: www.sickle-cell.com and www.consultant360.com If you would like to get in touch with me about this article or about Sickle cell, do so, via email: t.dehinde@yahoo.com.  And do checkout my blog:     https://www.dailylivingwithsicklecell.com/  My book on sickle cell– How To Live With Sickle Cell and my other books are available for purchase on www.amazon.com  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com