A professor of Computing and Information Technology, Adenike Osofisan, has said ten percent of the best universities in the world actively participate in collaborative multidisciplinary research. Osofisan who said this as keynote speaker at the 30th iSTEAMS conference organised by the Society for Multidisciplinary and Advance Research Techniques added that multidisciplinary collaborative research, rather than solo cut and paste table research, would address global challenges. The three-day conference, which was titled, ‘Educational legacies and pragmatic research innovation for addressing global challenges in a COVID-19 pandemic era,’ was held at the Lagos State University of Science and Technology, Ikorodu, Lagos in partnership with Trinity University, Lagos. Osofisan whose keynote lecture was titled, ‘New frontiers for institutional  growth using collaborative and multidisciplinary research,’ explained that the purpose of the research was to help understand the nature of human problems so as to effectively control the environment. ‘‘In other words, this type of research pursues potential solutions to human and societal problems. This research is more prescriptive in nature, focusing on the how questions. How can we promote pragmatic research innovations that would address global challenges in a covid-19 pandemic era that is VUCA in Nigeria? The answer lies in engaging in Multidisciplinary Collaborative Research rather than in solo cut and paste table research. ‘‘My sincere hope is that our deliberations at this conference would address issues that are germane to Collaborative Multidisciplinary and Pragmatic Research that will propel the growth of our institutions such that Nigeria institutions will be among the top universities in the world.’’ She added that the five ranking criteria for university were products of collaborative multidisciplinary research. ‘‘All the universities mentioned in this keynote belong to the top 10% of best universities in the world because of their active participation in collaborative multidisciplinary research, The university performance ranking indicators are grouped into five areas; Teaching (the learning environment), Research (volume, income, and reputation), Citations (research influence); International outlook (staff, students and research) and Industry income (knowledge transfer). These five ranking criteria are products of collaborative multidisciplinary research. This new Era has led us into The New Normal known as VUCA–Volatility, Uncertainty, Complexity, Ambiguity.’’ While giving his welcome address, acting Vice-Chancellor, LASUSTECH, Dr. Oluremi Olaleye, said, ‘‘I consider it an honour for our institution to host this year’s iSTEAMS conference. The role of SMART Africa in promoting and contributing to the dissemination of national, indigenous African, diaspora, and international. ‘‘I am excited and equally expectant to see robust papers being presented from all professional and academic angles. We must widen our horizons and think borderless in order to come up with workable solutions for our great continent and the world at large.’’  All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com