Families and friends of passengers abducted from the Abuja-Kaduna AK9 train have warned the Nigerian Railway Corporation not to test their patience over the planned resumption of train services along the Abuja-Kaduna route. The families warned that unless their loved ones are rescued unhurt by the authorities, they would resist any attempt to resume train services along the route. They also demanded the sack of the entire management of NRC for their gross incompetence. This is just as they faulted the claim by the Managing Director of the NRC, Fidet Okhiria, that he had been in contact with them. Speaking on behalf of the families, Dr Abdulfatai Jimoh, told journalists at a media briefing in Kaduna on Thursday that it was unfortunate that 52 days after the abduction of their beloved ones, all the NRC was interested in was the resumption of train services. Jimoh described the move of the NRC for the resumption of train services as most insensitive, considering the fact that the 61 victims of the train attack were still languishing in kidnappers’ den. According to him, the NRC managing director also flouted the directives of the president that they constantly briefed the families of the victims on development regarding those in kidnappers’ den. Jimoh said, “It has been 52 long days of captivity, fear, anxiety, tears, agony, trauma and despair. We cannot wait for this to come to an end.  Amidst this depressing situation, the NRC announced its planned resumption of train services for Monday, May 23, 2022. “Nigerians have clearly expressed their opposition to this highly insensitive decision of NRC given that 61 Nigerian citizens are still languishing in the deep forest in the hands of their abductors. Moreover, can the NRC guarantee the safety of prospective passengers?” He added that the NRC had not lived up to expectation two weeks after a presidential directive that the corporation should give minute by minute account rescue efforts to relatives, saying that “this task as simple as it is to accomplish has not been attended to by the NRC.” Jimoh said, “We have been kept in the dark to continue agonising and indeed some family members are now on the verge of developing mental instability. One can only imagine the physical, mental and emotional status of our relatives in captivity. “We the relatives of abducted passengers are proud Nigerians with clear identities. We are not ghosts and we are certainly not faceless as alleged by the NRC management in their press release. “Okhiria claimed in a recent interview with Arise TV that he had been in regular contact with the real relatives of the kidnapped passengers. “Nothing can be further from the truth. We challenge Okhiria to name just 10 of the real relatives he has been dealing with of the over 1,000 relatives of his passengers still held hostage in the forest. “This deliberate misinformation by Okhiria is least expected of a public servant of his standing, more so in a situation that requires utmost sincerity in resolving the current challenge of hostage taking.” Jimoh called on the Federal Government to relieve the NRC management of their job for gross incompetence. “The attitude of the top management of NRC to presidential directives is a clear testimony of gross incompetence and insensitivity to the plight of relatives of the abducted passengers and we demand their immediate replacement. “We would once again like to appeal most passionately to Mr President to direct all security agencies involved in the rescue efforts to accelerate action so that our beloved ones in captivity can be reunited with us soonest,” he added. The PUNCH had reported that on March 28, 2022, terrorists attacked an Abuja-Kaduna bound train by planting explosives devices along the rail track, leading to the death of 9 persons and the abduction of over 100 passengers. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com