The Federal Capital Territory Administration recently declared that one in every three FCT citizens practices open defecation; that is, more than 30 per cent of Abuja residents answer nature’s call in a primitive, unwholesome fashion. It then announced plans to construct 10,000 public toilets in strategic locations across the FCT in order to cut down the outrageous open defecation index. This strategy may sound ambitious to many but, considering how late in the day the plan is coming, one wonders whether it is an achievable project. Firstly, this regime has less than one year to go, and one wonders how the FCTA will do the magic because in our clime government is not a continuum. Succeeding administrations rarely complete unfinished projects, especially ones that are capital intensive. Secondly, the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), signed the Emergency Order on Open Defecation three years ago. Interestingly, of the 79 local government areas that have presently achieved the open defecation-free status, none of the FCT’s Area Councils (i.e. local governments) is counted as ODF. So, why is the FCTA just waking up from slumber? Abuja is a modern city and there are other strategies that would have been deployed by its government. Open defecation-free status does not come just by building toilets. It also requires proper use of the available toilet facilities and also having access to the existing ones. It has everything to do with toilet culture. If the appropriate consciousness is not imbibed, many people would persist in their indiscipline. And if there is no buy-in on the part of the citizens, the government can only achieve little momentum even if it builds toilets on every corner. To be clear, both private and corporate organisations in the FCT encourage open defecation. Toilets are always under lock and key in public places, like banks, schools, shopping centres, filling stations and plazas. The institutions then select to whom they give the keys to these so-called public facilities. This is not supposed to be so, considering that the places in question are public spaces and their toilets, therefore, should be open for public use. Not only being open for public use but they should have legible signs to direct people to their locations. Even at the Federal Secretarial complex, one may not find an available toilet to use. Hence, the bushes and shrubs around the complex serve as toilets for some civil servants. In some satellite towns of Abuja, tenants allow their landlords to neglect the construction of toilets. Likewise, they do not complain or protest when they are presented with inadequate toilet facilities by cost-cutting landlords. Others prefer to “manage” inappropriate and uncompleted toilet facilities in their compounds. Obviously, it is about toilet culture. When they are faced with the option of waiting for the completion of toilet systems, some tenants do not see these as critical parts of home units. So, the environment suffers as a result of this noncompliance to Water, Sanitation and Hygiene dictates when they resort to defecating in nearby no-man’s-land. Secondly, environmental health enforcement in the FCT is abysmally lax. Indeed, it is an indictment that Nigeria’s capital city is part of what makes us the open defecation capital of the world as if we are progressing or developing backwards. It was never like this. Right from the colonial era, Nigeria had the government functionaries whose primary duty was to inspect public places and people’s homes with a view to ensuring that the citizens had properly designed and situated facilities for defecation and environmental sanitation. At that time, they were called sanitary inspectors, known as ‘wole wole’ among the Yoruba, ‘nwaole-ala’ among the Igbo and ‘duba-gari’ among the Hausa, sanitary inspectors were government officials saddled with the responsibility of overseeing the sanitation of houses and neighbourhoods in every part of the country. In those days, they were feared more than the police. They were in charge of routine sanitary inspection of houses, markets, schools and communities; waste disposal and environmental sanitation, pollution control and industrial sanitation; water sampling and sanitation; port health duties (air, land and seaports); control of communicable disease (infectious diseases); building and urban planning; vector and pest control e.g. malaria control; prosecution of public health offenders in the court; meat and food inspection; the disposal of the dead (corpses); occupational health and factory inspection; vaccination/inoculation of both schoolchildren and adults, and health education on personal and public hygiene. In 1988, the name of the profession was changed to Environmental Health Officers in line with the internationally accepted name of practitioners of the profession and also to accommodate members of the profession, who graduated from the university with a degree in public health, environmental health and epidemiology. Subsequently, in 2002 the Federal Government set up an institution that regulated their practice in modern Nigeria, known as the Environmental Health Officers Registration Council of Nigeria. Therefore, the question is where are these officers today? Meanwhile, while we wait for the FCTA to regale us with detailed plans of how it will go about constructing 10,000 toilets along Abuja highways, let us look at these ten steps to ending open defecation, put together by a panel of sanitation specialists, and released by Katherine Purvis in a 2015 document in the Guardian of London. The first step is to make toilets a status symbol. We have to make toilets ‘sexy’ so that people would want to have them. When you say ‘toilet’ people often think of dark dirty and smelly places. Instead, we need them to think of toilets as rooms of happiness — clean, colourful and not smelly. The second step is changing the vocabulary. Let us make the conversation more accessible by saying what we mean. Words like open defecation, WASH and latrine do not mean anything to the masses, and so will not drive action. Let us replace them with words like toilets and “shitting outside.” The third step is “start with health.” Disease transmission and other risks are associated with open defecation. People need to understand the worth of investing in toilets in terms of the health benefits. For instance, the people in Abuja must be told that because they are shitting in the open, their children are having cholera and their waters are polluted whenever there is heavy rain in the FCT. The fourth step is to try a community-led approach. The fifth step is “don’t count the loos.” This means that we must not reduce toilets to statistics. In India for instance, such a supply-driven approach has resulted in graveyards of toilets, where they are used as storage. Likewise, the FCT administration must avoid the temptation of using it to validate a policy as opposed to using it to better the lives of ordinary citizens in satellite towns. The focus should be on counting open defecation free communities and not on toilets constructed. The sixth step is “make the case to governments.” The seventh step is to encourage handwashing, establishing and emphasising the nexus between WASH messages of handwashing with soap and of not defecating in the open, keeping toilets fly-proof and washing hands after using the toilet and before preparing food. The eighth step is to support sustainable programmes. The ninth is not to rely on business. While the private sector and markets have a big role to play, we need to be very clear: sanitation is profitable from a public health and dignity perspective, and it requires public investment. This is another way of saying that the FCT government must not wait for the private sector to deliver on their 10,000 toilets project. The tenth step is “teach poo as a resource.” We need to hammer it in that collecting, and using shit, is yet another way to bring down the unemployment figures in Nigeria. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com