Federal Government has sent a total of 200 youths to Israel and Morocco to be trained in crop production and animal husbandry, the Executive Secretary, National Agricultural Lands Development Authority, Paul Ikonne, has said. He disclosed this at the official handing over of travel documents to the beneficiaries in Abuja and explained that it the move was a continuation of the National Young Farmers Scheme. Ikonne said the aim of the scheme was to make agriculture more attractive to youths as the training would expose and equip them on modern agriculture and agribusiness. He said the youths were drawn from the 36 states of the federation, as they would be trained for six days on intensive greenhouse farming and animal husbandry. The NALDA boss sais Israel and Morocco were chosen because they had the expertise in these areas. “All the expenses are paid by the Federal Government as contained in NALDA’s budget and they will be back to their localities to train other young people on NALDA’s integrated farm estates in their areas,” Ikonne stated. He added, “And the youths will be engaged in the process of learning proper crop production and greenhouse management, and 100 youths will be engaged in animal husbandry, slaughtering processing of meat. “So we are sending them to countries that we know have strong expertise on what we are doing; Israel and Morocco, and this is to enhance their knowledge and to expose them to modern day practice in crop production and animal husbandry. “When they go and get exposed, the next question will be how will you be engaged and integrated? We already have a platform such as the institutional properties, the land from the schools, state governments and their communities. So definitely it makes it easier for them to be integrated.” Ikonne said the beneficiaries would begin to teach others and this would help in improving the crop yields across the country. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com