A former Chief of Army Staff, Lt. Gen. Tukur Buratai, has appealed for support for All Progressives Congress’ presidential aspirant and former Minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi, in Bauchi State. Buratai, who is Nigeria’s Ambassador to the Republic of Benin, made the appeal at a parley with delegates of the APC in Bauchi, Wednesday night, according to a statement. Burutai stated that he was spurred to give his support to Amaechi due to the minister’s profile and experience in governance. He said, “You can see from the introduction, the experience of our Presidential aspirant. The profile of Rt Hon. Chibuike Rotimi Amaechi is quite intimidating. He has proven to be a sound administrator, a versatile leader, a good strategist and a politician per excellence, who has shown good qualities in all areas he had worked. “As Speaker, as Governor, as Minister and also first among equals during his tenure as Chairman of Nigeria Governors’ Forum, as well as the dexterity and the quality of the campaign (for President Buhari) that he led on two occasions. That is why I am giving him my full support. “He did that diligently with all his determination, loyalty and of course with love for Nigeria and love for humanity irrespective of what religion you belong to. This is quite commendable, that’s why he’s here today to solicit your votes. From what you have heard about him, I believe you know that he’s the man of the moment. He is the right choice. So, I urge you to make the right choice and vote for him.” Addressing the delegates, Amaechi said he is the only aspirant in the party with impressive records that would defeat the opposition party. He said, “This is the moment of decision. For 22 years, I have held public office, as Speaker, as Governor and as Minister. And in all of these, you will see my footprint. There’s a railway construction going on from Port Harcourt to Maiduguri. It includes Bauchi and it’s called the Port Harcourt-Maiduguri railway. If you vote for me, that project will be completed and it will create employment. So vote for me, make me the candidate of the party. I doubt that the other aspirants have the capacity to defeat me, If you vote for me I will defeat PDP.” Earlier, at a visit to the Emir of Bauchi, HRM Dr. Rilwan Suleiman Adamu, Amaechi re-emphasised his commitment to deliver on infrastructure and tackle insecurity if elected.