A non-governmental organisation, Advocacy for Good Citizenship and Peace, has kicked against what it described as entrenchment of bad leadership in Nigeria, saying this did not allow for the progress of the country. A public enlightenment arm of Somadaz Foundation, the group said it was high time the electorate voted for leaders of their choice based on their “person” and not based on “party.” Its National Coordinator, Barr Kelechi Mbam, stated this during a press conference in Abakaliki, on Tuesday. According to him, the group had mapped out strategies and measures geared towards sensitising the citizenry on the need to know what was expected of them, as the 2023 general election drew near. He said, “I welcome you all to this important event holding at another crucial period in the annals of our history as a people. “We are all aware that our dear country, Nigeria, will go into the polls come 2023 to elect another set of political leaders ranging from state to National Assembly members, as well as governors of states and of course, the President. “The prelude to these decisive moments have begun nationwide as different political parties have commenced sales of nomination forms. This means that, parties are expected to conduct their primary elections in order to elect a candidate who will fly the party’s flag in various elective positions. “We have followed closely the trend of things as it unfolds and we regret to observe that there is a dangerous fashion creeping into our political system. This deadly cankerworm, if unchecked, is capable of continuous enthronement of bad leaders in our polity. The issue of placing political parties above individual pedigree is becoming overwhelming in our voting pattern. “A situation where a credible candidate fails election because he contested under a perceived smaller party has continued to deal with us negatively more than ever. “It is against this backdrop that we have decided to launch campaign for candidate based voting tagged: Na Person; No Be party.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com