In commemoration of Children’s Day, which is celebrated annually on May 27, BLESSING ENENAITE  speaks to some child entertainers— Oluwamurede Abraham and Moses Ajani of Xplicit Dancers; Oluwaseun Adebayo and Tayo Ibrahim of Dream Catchers Academy; Salamot Ashafa and Temilayo Abodunrin — about their careers and dreams for the country Tell us about yourself. I am 10 years old and a JSS2 student of Lead City High School, Ibadan, Oyo State. I love dancing and playing football. What attracted you to dancing? I was (practically) born into dancing. My father, David Abraham, is a dance instructor and the President of Xplicit Dancers. What is your most memorable dance experience? My most memorable moment with Xplicit was our performance for the Ooni of Ife, Oba Adeyeye Ogunwusi, in December, 2021. Do you intend to take dance as a career after school or you are just doing it for the fun of it. I will take dance as a career after school because it brings food to the table. What did you do on Children’s Day? We performed at many events. What kind of leader do you desire for Nigeria? I want a leader like my dad. He cares and loves all of us in the house. He treats everyone like his own children. What is your favourite food? Macaroni is my favourite food. Tell us about yourself. I am nine years old, and I am in Grade Five, a pupil of Headstart Pillars International College, Ibadan, Oyo State. What are the challenges you face as a dancer? I have to rehearse consistently to perfect my dance steps. It is a challenge because there is no big or small person in the group. Everyone has to prove themselves. Why did you decide to become a dancer? I have always loved to see people dance. I was brought to the Xplicit home (where all members of the group live together) by Mr Abraham who took care of me. In the process of seeing others dance, I developed interest in it. That was why I decided to also become a dancer. What do you love the most about Nigeria? I have deep love for Nigeria because it is my country. I have never been to any other country. What don’t you like about Nigeria? I don’t like the fact that the country is experiencing low and unstable electricity supply. Also, the roads are bad, and I don’t like that. What is your most memorable dance experience? My most memorable experience was when we performed at the grand opening of the Lekan Salami Stadium, Adamasingba, Ibadan, Oyo State. The Oyo State Governor, Seyi Makinde, and many other dignitaries were in attendance. Aside from dancing, what other things do you love doing? I love to play football, sing, play the drum and read. What career would you like to pursue when you become an adult? I will like to become a dancer. Tell us about yourself. I am 12 years old. I am a primary five pupil of Dream Catchers Academy, Ikorodu Lagos. My father died sometime ago, so me and my siblings had to stay with our mum. Sometimes, we did not have food to eat and we would have to beg. One day, my mum was going from one house to another begging for help. Then, she saw someone that could help us. That was Miss Seyi Oluyole, the founder of Dream Catchers Academy. My mum told us (me and my siblings) that we should behave ourselves when we get to her place. Since we got here, mum (Ms Oluyole) has been providing us with food, shelter and clothing. What does dance mean to you? Dancing makes me happy. It gives me joy. Whenever I am sad and I hear music, my mood will change for good and I will become happy again. Dance is a passion for me. I really love doing it. One can use dance for self expression and to attract people to what one is doing. Which notable personalities have you performed for? The notable people I have performed for include Davido, Small Doctor, Osas Ighodaro and some government officials. What does Children’s Day mean to you? It is a day to celebrate children and give to those who are in need. It is also a day to celebrate those (children) who have done great things and have made positive impact on their communities. It is a day to share things with people outside one’s family. Are you proud to be a Nigerian? Yes, I am very proud to be a Nigerian. What would you like to change about the country? The first thing I would like to change about the country is the harassment and bullying of citizens. Second, I would like the government to give us good roads. I will like a better government in the country, and I want people to be able to vote fairly. Who are your biggest cheerleaders? My biggest cheerleaders are Miss Seyi Oluyole, Rihanna, Miss Esther and myself. What do you do when you’re not dancing? Sometimes, when I am not dancing, I would rehearse the songs I had been taught. I could also be found drawing. I am always writing down my goals, doing my assignments or looking for sometime worthwhile to do. Would you like to be Nigeria’s president in the future? Yes, I would like to be the country’s president in the future because I want to change the country for good. For example, we have bad roads. I would fix them if I become the president. There are some people that are afraid of coming to Nigeria because of the negative things they have heard. If I become the president, I’ll make sure people hear better things about the country. Tell us about yourself. I am a 12-year-old saxophonist. I am a JSS2 student of Flora High School, Lagos. I am from Offa, Kwara State, but I live in Lagos. How did you develop love for playing the saxophone? I decided to play the saxophone when I was young. I actually started playing the keyboard (piano) at the age of four. Then, I went to a church event where I saw some children playing the saxophone and I really liked it, particularly because of its loud sound and shining gold colour. I was really attracted to it, and I told my parents I wanted to play the instrument. After some time, they bought one for me and also got me a tutor when I was six years old. What are your most notable achievements so far? I have had lots of achievements, which include performing on big stages such as the Ali Baba January 1st concert, AY Live and BeeJay Sax concert. I have also played alongside Davido. In addition to that, I have played outside Nigeria in places like Connecticut, New York and Atlanta (in the United States of America). I have also had the opportunity to meet notable people, including the Ooni of Ife, Oba Adeyeye Ogunwusi; President of Living Faith Church Worldwide, Bishop David Oyedepo; Senior Pastor of Daystar Christian Centre, Sam Adeyemi; Don Jazzy and K1 de Ultimate. What challenges do you face as a saxophonist? I always need time to practice and learn new things. Also, I have to be very hardworking and consistent. In addition, learning jazz songs could be very hard and time consuming. I also need to dedicate enough time to my studies. What are the qualities that have helped you to grow? The qualities that have brought me this far are discipline, hard work, consistency, constant practice, and above all, God and my loving parents, who always support me. Who are your biggest cheerleaders? My biggest cheerleaders are my parents, two brothers, grandparents and my fans who follow me on social media. What do you love the most about playing the saxophone? I like the fact that I get to meet a lot of people, including celebrities. It also gives me the opportunity to go to places I have never been to. I like the fact that I can create melodies with my saxophone. How did you spend Children’s Day? I had two interviews on Children’s Day. One was virtual and the other was at a studio. After both interviews, my school organised a party for students, and I attended with my brothers. We had so much fun and ate a lot of snacks. Also, there was a beauty contest and I came second. What makes you proud to be a Nigerian? There is no place like home but I wish Nigeria was more conducive to live in. I wish we had a government that really cares about the people and provides social amenities for citizens of the country. Tell us about yourself I am 10 years old and a student of Adedokun International School, Sango Ota, Ogun State. How did you celebrate Children’s Day? I visited a motherless babies’ home to celebrate the day with them. What is your most memorable Children’s Day experience? That was about three years ago, when I was the master of ceremonies for children’s programme. What made you to become a skit maker and actress? I am into skit making and acting because I like them and they are so much fun. Also, I like to meet with celebrities. Which celebrities have you worked with? I have acted with many celebrities, including Toyin Abraham, Femi Adebayo, Kenny George, Kenny Blaq, Josh2funny, Cute Abiola and Broda Shaggi. Who encouraged you to become a skit maker and actress? My fans, who comment on my videos, encourage me. They always tell me to continue with what I am doing because they like it and they love me. My parents, siblings and and other family members encourage me as well. What do you love the most about Nigeria? I love everything about Nigeria. I like the atmosphere and the talents in the country. What don’t you like about the country? I don’t like the issue of inadequate power supply in the country. Roads are also bad and things are expensive. If you meet the president of Nigeria, what would you like to tell him? I will tell him to please appoint children into his government, such as a Minister for Children’s Affairs. Children should be representing themselves. Aside from making skits and acting, what other things do you love doing? I love reading and learning about people and things. What would you like to become when you grow up? When I was younger, I wanted to become a doctor. But now, I think I would like to become an actress because I have discovered that acting is very interesting. What are your most memorable moments? That would be the times I meet celebrities. One of the movies I featured in that I will never forget is, The Ghost and the Tout, by Toyin Abraham. That was the first film I acted in. What is your favourite food? I love Ofada rice. What message do you have for other children out there? I want to tell talented children that they should never relent or give up. They should always listen to their parents, and keep praying to God. Tell us about yourself. I am 11 years old. I am a primary three pupil of Dream Catchers  Academy, Ikorodu Lagos. My best colours are yellow and purple. What motivates you as a dancer? I am motivated to be a dancer because I love dancing. When I grow up, I want to continue as a dancer. How did you spend Children’s Day? I spent it being happy. If you become the country’s president, what would you do differently? If I become the president of Nigeria, I will make sure all the roads are good. I will ensure that Nigeria becomes a better country. What would you like to become when you grow up? I would like to become an actress and dancer. What are your favourite subjects? I love Mathematics and English. What is your best food? My best food is pounded yam with chicken.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com