The National Leader of the All Progressives Congress and presidential aspirant, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, has urged Nigerians to embrace religious tolerance to ensure lasting peace and stability in the country. He also promised to address the reward system if elected president so that party members could get due recognition for their efforts. The APC leader disclosed this in a statement issued by the Director of his media office, Tunde Rahman, on Sunday. Tinubu was quoted to have said this during his meeting with the APC delegates in Adamawa and Taraba States when he interfaced with them in light of the party’s forthcoming primaries. He said, “You must resolve your differences and put your house in order. We will work with you on this. One important thing you need is the unity of purpose. Nigerians embrace religious tolerance to ensure lasting peace and stability in the country. “The confidence Lagosians have in me and my team in 1999 and 2003 has propelled the state to its present level where Lagos is the sixth-largest economy in Africa.” This courtesy visit was after the installation of the APC chieftain, Dr. Mahmood Ahmad, as Sarki Gabas Adamawa, and the party’s National Vice Chairman (North-East), Mustapha Salihu, as Sa’i Adamawa, by the royal father. Addressing the APC delegates in Yola, Tinubu laid out a clear and convincing case for the top office and explained that he had the experience, skill, and vision to lead Nigeria to a better future. “I promise to make the party proud and deliver on his promises to further improve security, bring employment and create greater economic opportunities if given the party’s ticket and elected president,” he added. The APC Secretary in the state, Dr. Raymond Chidamma, spoke about Tinubu’s contributions to the rebirth of democracy after long years of military rule and his record as governor of Lagos who reformed the state, making it a leading economy in Africa. In Jalingo, the Taraba State capital, Tinubu charged party members to resolve their differences and forge a united front, stating that unity was key to victory in the state. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com