A Non-Governmental Organisation, Cancer for Enlightenment and Support Foundation, has said cancer is not a death sentence as it can be medically treated. The Chairman of the Board of Trustee of the organisation, Mr Adegboyega Adepitan, said this while presenting the sum of N450,000 to some cancer patients at the children’s ward of the Lagos State University Teaching Hospital. Adepitan shared his success story as a survivor of cancer back in 2014, which motivated him to co-establish the foundation to sensitise people to the dangers and preventive ways around the viral disease. According to him, the food we eat greatly determines the risk of contracting cancer, saying nutrition it was important to prioritise good nutrition as it helps to enrich the immune system. “We should be cautious of what we eat, because this is the most important cause of cancer. “Then,  secondly, when they pick a trace of cancer, they should go for checks immediately; they should not allow it to extend to a long period of time that things will get complicated. “Cancer is not a death sentence; it depends on where you start, how soon you start when you find out traces of cancer,” he said. When asked what kinds of food to abstain from, Adepitan said junk foods were cancer-friendly. He also advised against ecessive sugar and condiments intake. Adepitan said the NGO had embarked on numerous cancer outreach programmes, whilst extending philanthropic support to cancer patients needing surgery and chemotherapy across the country. Other BOT members of the foundation include Mr Wale Jegede, Dr Bisola Agbaje, Mrs Bose Adepitan, Mr Segun Olulade, Mr Ola Oresanya, Mr Olumide Oduwole and Rev. Tony Akinyemi.  All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com