Governor Aminu Tambuwal of Sokoto State has vowed to rebuild Nigeria if he becomes the president of the country in 2023. He said this during his visit to the National Working Committee of the Peoples Democratic Party on Friday. The presidential hopeful restated that having served in different arms of government, he would hit the ground running from day one if elected as the President of Nigeria. Tambuwal said being the youngest amongst the 17 aspirants in the PDP, he is closer to the youths as well as the old, nothing that “The party delegates will look at him and see that he’s fresh, younger and closer to the age “Soro Soke” generation” who are yearning for leadership. and vote for him.” “Not only that Mr chairman, I’m a party man at various times at local level, I have been legal adviser, organising secretary and currently the chairman of the PDP Govenors Forum. I’m the bridge between the young and the old, the bridge that will connect all of every part of this country and Mr chairman knowing you, i know you will preside over a hitch-free national convention, and a level-playing field will be given to all of us so that whoever emerges, it will be easy for the party to rally round the person.” Speaking at the session, the chairman of the PDP, Senator Iyiohcha Ayu, described Tambuwal as one of the outstanding PDP governors and Presidential aspirants under the party. He said, “You ran the House of Representatives at a very interesting time. You have a lot of members in the NWC who are familiar with you and members of your Constituency- the legislature. “What Nigerians are crying for is quality leadership which you possess. We can all remember the case of Rwanda and we all thought the country had become a failed state but if you see what Rwanda has turned into under Paul Kagame, I’m sure you will all agree that’s the product of quality leadership. “It is true that you are one of those who are well-prepared with your experience in the legislature, executive and legal background, you will run the country with the fear of God and rule of law. Nigerians are yearning for us to come back and we want to come back strong to solve the problems of Nigerians. “I’m happy you didn’t attack any of your colleagues who are aspirants. That’s the spirit we are preaching. We believe that whoever emerges, we will give him massive support. We are a Democratic Party. Not like the other party where a form cost 100m while ASUU is on strike.” On his part, Sam Anywau, the national secretary added that the PDP primary elections would be fair and hitch-free.