Lagos State Government said it paid N39bn to 10,380 retirees from May 2019 to April 2022. The Commissioner for Establishments, Training and Pensions, Mrs Ajibola Ponnle, said this during the 93rd retirement bond certificate presentation ceremony of N1.13bn into the Retirement Savings Accounts of 438 retirees of the Lagos State public service on Friday. She said, “Despite the huge liabilities faced in running our dear state, the present administration has ensured the prompt payment of pension entitlements to retirees under the Pay As You Go Pension scheme monthly, while LASPEC ensures the payment of accrued pension rights to retirees under the Contributory Pension Scheme to enable timely access to Retirement Savings Accounts. “Today, under the administration of Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu, the Lagos State Government has once again, faithfully honoured its obligations as stated in the amended Lagos State Contributory Pension Scheme Law, by the presentation of bond certificates to the 93rd batch retirees from the state public service. “It is with great joy that I report that the Lagos State Government has paid accrued pension rights of over N39bn to 10,380 retirees in the Mainstream, Local Government, State Universal Basic Board, Teaching Service Commission and other parastatals of the State Government from May 2019 till date. “Furthermore, the sum of N1.13bn only has been credited into the Retirement Savings Accounts of 438 retirees this month, alongside their monthly contributions.” She urged the retirees to contact LASPEC or the Ministry of Establishments, Training and Pensions if they required clarifications or advice regarding the modalities surrounding their retirement benefit matters. “The State Government is committed to the welfare and interest of pensioners in the Lagos State Public Service and has continually prioritised the prompt payment of the government’s pension obligations within the available limited resources,” she said. The Director-General, Lagos State Pension Commission, Mr Babalola Obilana, said Lagos State had been consistent with its role in the implementation of the Contributory Pension Scheme in line with the provisions of the Lagos State Pension Reform Law of 19th March, 2007 now amended. He urged the retirees to beware of any individual or association claiming to be affiliated with the state government and could process or fast track their pension entitlements for a fee. Copyright PUNCH All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com