At least four women have won the ticket of the All Progressives Congress to vie for seats in the Kwara State House of Assembly the 2023 general elections. The women are Hajia Arinola Lawal, daughter of former governor Mohammed Lawal; Alhaja Tundun Alanamu, Mrs Damilola Abass and Mrs Mariam Aladi. Lawal defeated the incumbent legislator representing Ilorin East Constituency, Ali Amuda-Jimoh, after polling 47 votes as opposed to Amuda-Jimoh who got 13 votes. Our correspondent gathered that more than half of the 24 members of the male-dominated Kwara State House of Assembly lost their bids to win the party’s ticket for reelection in the House. Among them are the Deputy Speaker of the Assembly, Raphael Adetiba, representing Oke-Ero Constituency; and Felix Awolola, Chairman of the Assembly Committee on Information who is representing Isin State Constituency in the Assembly. Two of the Assembly members, Saheed Popoola, representing Ojomu Balogun Constituency in Offa Local Government Area; and Ndanusa Guyegi, representing Edu State Constituency, have consequently decamped to the Social Democratic Party. However, both the Speaker of the state House of Assembly, Yakubu Salihu-Danladi; and the Majority Leader, Olawoyin Magaji, won their re-election tickets in Ilesha /Gwanara and Magaji Ngeri state constituencies, respectively. Also A.G.F. Salahuddeen emerged as the APC candidate in the Omupo constituency after defeating his challengers, Mr Wale Oyinloye and Luqman Abubakar. Ibrahim Ambali, who is representing Owode/Onire Constituency in the Asa Local government Area; and Owolabi Razaq for Share/Oke-Ode Constituency also won the APC ticket. It is ditto for Gbenga Yusuf representing Essa/Shawo/Igboidun Constituency in the Offa Local Government Area. Our correspondent reports that the APC House of Assembly primary was held amidst apprehension and early disturbance by political thugs in few constituencies as well as little disagreement among politicians over delegates’ list, a situation that delayed the commencement of the election in Offa, Oyun and Ifelodun local government areas. There was also reported disturbance by political thugs in Ilemona, venue of the election in the Oyun Local Government Area, as well as Share, headquarters of Ifelodun Local Government Area. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com