Manchester City midfielder Kevin De Bruyne has been voted the Premier League’s Player of the Season. De Bruyne has enjoyed his most productive Premier League campaign, scoring 15 goals and providing seven assists. The Belgian previously won the accolade in 2020, while Mohamad Salah claimed it in 2018. It is the third successive season that a City player has received the prize after defender Ruben Dias claimed the award 12 months ago. Mohamed Salah and Heung-Min Son were on the eight-man shortlist with both players still in contention for the Golden Boot, with the Liverpool forward one goal ahead of Tottenham’s South Korean. Full-backs Joao Cancelo and Trent Alexander-Arnold also represented the title-tussling titans, with Jarrod Bowen, Bukayo Saka and James Ward-Prowse completing the star-studded list of nominees. The winner was based on votes from the public on the Premier League website, combined with those of the 20 Premier League club captains and a panel of football experts. De Bruyne’s four-goal haul to overwhelm Wolves earlier this month might have swung the balance in his favour. The expected-goals total for City’s seven shots in the first half at Molineux was just 0.52 – in other words, attempts from those positions would usually yield one goal every other game. De Bruyne scored three inside 24 minutes. Speaking after the game, Guardiola said, “Kevin always had the ability to create the special things. “Always we push him to say he is an incredible player, generous with assists, but he has to score goals and this season is the most prolific he has had since we are together. “We spoke to him about running into the box and being closer to the box and this season he has done it better and better.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com