The National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress, Senator Abdullahi Adamu, on Wednesday, disclosed that all the 28 presidential aspirants vying for the party’s ticket were aware that only one could clinch it. This was as he chided people comparing the manner he was picked as a consensus candidate at the APC chairmanship convention to decide the 2023 presidential primary of the party. Adamu made the statement during an interview with Voice of America Hausa service at the APC national secretariat in Abuja. “You can’t stop our party stalwart from contesting election or aspiring for the presidency. It is their right and we are happy for them. There is nothing wrong with anybody aspiring for the exalted seat of the presidency. “It is God that decides who gets what. Once God makes up his mind and says this is who He wants, that is what we are praying for. We have 28 aspirants for the presidential ticket and everybody knows that all of them cannot get the ticket. “If it is God’s wish, they all can even be president of the country one after the other. Ours is to ensure justice in the choice of who emerges as the candidate of the party. That does not mean we are perfect. But we pray we do the right thing,” he said. When reminded that the APC presidential primary could be arranged for a consensus in a similar way he was chosen through a special arrangement with the influence of the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), Adamu said both situations were different. “There is no truth in what you said. The reason is that the chairmanship seat is not the same as that of the tussle for the presidency of the country. You can’t even compare the two of them. That question does not arise. “However, the party has laid down its rules and regulations for the aspirants. We would scrutinise all of them based on our guidelines to be sure we pick the right candidate for the party,” he said. An indifferent Adamu stated that despite all the insults they received, the APC had the edge far ahead of other parties. According to him, it is natural, for the APC will attract Nigerians more than any other party because it is where the action is happening. “Any right-thinking politician would naturally gravitate towards the APC. Of course, we have our problems but today we are the cynosure of all Nigerians and I am hopeful God willing, we will retain power at the general election,” he noted. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com