A faction of the All Progressives Congress in Abia State has reconstituted its leadership following the defection of its former chairman, Iheanacho Obioma, to the Labour Party. Speaking to journalists at the party secretariat on Azikiwe road in Umuahia, the secretary, Barrister Perfect Okorie, stated that it has become a public knowledge that the factional State chairman and their leader has moved to Labour Party. He noted that as result of the development and inline with the constitutional provision of the party, 2021 as amended which reads, “that in the absence of the state chairman due to reason of incapacitation or willful withdrawal from his position or defection to another party, or for whatever reason, that the state deputy chairman should assume the position”. “Consequently, the state deputy chairman Goldie Nwagbara, has stepped in as acting the factional chairman”. On the issue of the conflicting governorship primaries that held in Abia State, the secretary revealed that the party adhered to the directive from the NWC, led by Senator Abdullahi Adamu and National Secretary, Otunba Iyiola Omisore which mandated the party in Abia, Benue and Osun state to adopt a direct mode of primaries for all its elective positions because of their peculiar challenges as he assured members to remain resolute and keep fate with the party. In his acceptance speech, the now factional chairman, Nwagbara, thanked the party executives for the confidence reposed on him to act in such exalted capacity and described it as another turn around in his life as a member of the party. He promised to carry everyone in the party along in his bid to make the party become a force to reckon with in the state. In respect to the primaries that was conducted, he asserted, “Having followed the directive of the NWC that those who emerged under our faction are the party’s eligible candidates, the primary election that produce Chief Ikechi Emenike is illegal primary which amounts to a nullity”. However, the national leadership of the party had since recognised Kingsley Ononogbu, as the authentic party chairman of the All Progressive Congress In Abia state. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com