Advertising experts under the aegis of the Heads of Advertising Groups have condemned the governments of Lagos and Kaduna over their aggressive campaigns against outdoor advertising. On Thursday, they held a press to address the onslaught against outdoor advertising practice in Lagos and Kaduna states. Speaking at a press conference in Lagos on Thursday, President, Outdoor Advertising Association of Nigeria, Emmanuel Ajufo, described the actions of Lagos and Kaduna states as onslaught against the association. He said LASAA had refused to work within the framework of the laws that established it, lamenting the failure of the Lagos State Government to constitute and inaugurate a governing board to supervise its activities He also lamented the arbitrary fixing of fees payable on billboard platforms as well as the agency’s insistence on payment of advert permit fees even when there were no advertisements on the billboards. According to the association, recently, Kaduna State Urban Planning and Development Authority pulled down billboard structures, prevented the owners from recovering them and sold them off to those who traded in scraps. He said, “We have since found out that the whole essence is to allow some favoured business owners, close to the corridors of power in Kaduna State, to install their LED platforms in those areas. This is another form of franchising, and HASG frowns at it. “The HASG wishes to caution both LASAA and KASUPDA as well as those other states that might be planning such acts as highlighted above, that they are acting illegally. “HASG wishes to inform all the states that this Group will not hesitate to issue a boycott instruction to all advertisers against any state that engages in such actions as have been committed by LASAA and KASUPDA.” He called on both LASAA and KASUPDA to, as a matter of urgency, review their relationship with members of the Outdoor Advertising Association of Nigeria with a view to making it easy to engage in this business, especially in the highlighted areas  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com