The Pentecostal Fellowship of Nigeria has decried the high cost of expression of interest and nomination forms by the two main political parties ahead of the 2023 general elections. The body said it made no sense for the parties to peg the presidential forms at between N41m and N100m. The National President, PFN, Bishop Wale Oke, stated this while briefing journalists shortly after the inauguration of the fellowship’s South-South Zonal Executive Council in Port Harcourt, Rivers State, on Friday. Oke, who was represented at the event by PFN’s National Secretary-General, Rev Cosmos Ilechukwu, said members of the church must be awake and get involved in politics by voting and being voted for. He said the inauguration was imperative to drive the 10-point agenda of the PFN leadership, including the directorate of politics and governance, as well as to drive evangelism. Oke stated, “The body of Jesus Christ should be involved in politics and help to determine who becomes the leader of this country. Not just to vote, but to be among the delegates, who will vote and be voted for. “The PFN is non-partisan; we are not championing any particular candidate and we will not do so, because that is not what the church is supposed to be doing. All we are saying is that the church should be awake and step up its political involvement.” On the sale of nomination forms by parties, the PFN leader said, “It is immoral as far as I am concerned, it doesn’t make sense. “The salary of a Nigerian president is less than N2m per month. How much will that amount to in a year? That’s about N24m per annum. “If a President doesn’t touch a dime from his salary for four years, his salary cannot be enough to buy the form, so does that make any sense? “Nigeria and Nigerians must stand in one voice to condemn the absurdity of the N100m form and the immorality that it connotes.” Also speaking, the National Vice-President, PFN, Apostle Zilly Aggrey, frowned on the planned adoption of consensus candidates by some political parties, saying it was inimical to democracy. He stated, “The PFN is not for any particular candidate or political party, but our people should be involved in determining who becomes the leader. “People enjoy democracy for the freedom to choose who leads them, even at the party level. “Consensus is a new word in our political lexicon and if care is not taken, it will lead to a very subtle dictatorship. “People should be allowed to decide who leads them from the grassroots, the party level and all levels of politics. This is my personal opinion, I am not a politician.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com