A Federal High Court in Abuja on Tuesday adjourned till June 28 for parties to report on the outcome of a similar suit by the President, Major General Muhammmadu Buhari (retd.), before the Supreme Court. The adjournment was in respect of a suit by the Peoples Democratic Party on the provision of Section 84(12) of the Electoral Act, 2022 The PDP, in the suit FHC/ABJ/CS/247/2022 was seeking to restrain the National Assembly from giving effect to the request by President Buhari to delete Section 84(12) of the Electoral Amendment Act, 2022. Justice Inyang Ekwo chose the date after lawyer to the plaintiff and former President of the Nigerian Bar Association, Joseph Daudu (SAN), stated that the hearing of the suit was dependent on the outcome of the one before the Supreme Court filed by Buhari and the Attorney General of the Federation (AGF). Justice Ekwo had on the last adjourned date, asked the plaintiff to review it’s case in view of a recent Court of Appeal judgment on an appeal by the PDP against the judgment by Justice Evelyn Ayandike of the Federal High Court, Umuahia, voiding the Section 84 (12) of the Electoral Act. At the mention of the case on Tuesday, Daudu told the court although  the suit was fixed for May 24 parties to review their processes, some of the respondents just served him some applications. When asked by the Judge if he has done a review of his case as earlier directed by the court, Daudu said he found that the judgment of the Court of Appeal on Section 84(12), if applied, would make the work of the court easier because the appellant court agreed with his client on two points. Daudu added that the Appeal Court judgment “is still merely persuasive since it is not the final court.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com