An All Progressives Congress’ governorship aspirant in Kaduna State, Sani Sha’aban,  on Saturday rejected governor Nasir El-Rufai’s endorsement of Senator Uba Sani as the party’s governorship candidate for the 2023 election in the state. Sha’aban argued that the endorsement of Sani, the lawmaker representing Kaduna Central Senatorial Zone, did not receive the blessings of 90 per cent of the APC members and stakeholders in the state. Sha’aban, a former House of Representatives member, whose 17 children bought the N50m Expression of Interest and the Nomination forms for him, described the endorsement of Sani under a “consensus arrangement” as “undemocratic”. The PUNCH reported that El-Rufai had anointed Sani,  from his ‘core team’ to succeed him after his tenure ends in 2023. Addressing journalists in Kaduna on Saturday, Sha’aban argued that as a founding member of the All Nigeria People’s Party which merged to form the APC and as an aspirant who was among the first to purchase the governorship forms, he was not consulted on the endorsement of Sani. He described the process as “undemocratic.” The aspirant added that anything short of conducting free and fair primaries would be rejected by him and his teaming supporters across the state. He expressed optimism that he would garner 90 per cent of the entire delegate votes in the party’s primary. He said the party’s delegates in the state should be allowed to choose their preferred candidate. Sha’aban said, “Two days ago, Kaduna State woke up with the news that the incumbent governor, Mallam Nasir El-Rufai, has endorsed one Distinguished Senator Uba Sani representing Kaduna Central Senatorial zone, to be the consensus APC governorship candidate for the 2023 gubernatorial election. “We receive the news with mixed feelings, because as a founding member of the APC and the first governorship aspirant to purchase the form, I was not contacted on any consensus arrangements which I consider an insult to my person. He added, “So, all I am saying is that we reject in totality anything called consensus arrangement. It is an attempt to render all delegates useless which is against democratic process. I also wish to make it clear that I cannot be rubbished, because if you rubbish me I will rubbish you. Democratic process must be followed and respected. All those who purchased forms must be allowed to go for primaries. “If it is only 10 per cent that we can win and it is justifiable, we will accept it and if God says we are getting 90 per cent which I am sure of, then, allow us to get our victory. That’s the message. No more, no less. “There are delegates in the state from the ward and local government levels who are democratically charged with the responsibility of electing their representatives into various positions but we are shocked that a special arrangement was made without the knowledge of some of us who had earlier bought the nomination forms.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com