The Lagos State Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, on Tuesday, canvassed that the coveted presidential ticket of the ruling All Progressives Congress be zoned to South-West aspirants in the spirit of equity and fairness. Sanwo-Olu made the statement when he returned his nomination and expression of interest forms at the APC National Secretariat in Abuja. The governor was accompanied by some state executives and party leaders. Speaking to journalists after he submitted his forms, excited Sanwo-Olu disclosed that in line with what was discussed at the last meeting of South-West leaders, it was morally fair that the pendulum of the presidential ticket went in their direction. “That is what is fair, that is what is just. But it is really about Nigeria. There are aspirations everywhere and there are so many qualified people. “But for equity and fairness we have in our country, I think it’s just morally fair that it goes to that part and South-West is top-notch in that. We believe that our positions from those meetings are still very valid and everybody must consider them,” he said. While taking stock of his achievements, the governor described it as three years of monumental changes. “If I start rolling them here, we will be here till tomorrow, but in all phases of life, we have touched our citizens; in transportation, education, health, housing, good governance, the provision of basic amenities, but more importantly, in security for our people. “You know what we have a nation but Lagos continues to remain in our view the safest city. Now it receives the highest foreign direct investments because the environment is safe and secured. We have provided the platform for the organised private sector to thrive. “Mind you, Lagos also during this period was the epicenter for Covid-19 for about a year and a half we were slowed down but did not slow down the economy. It gives us the opportunity to redouble our efforts in all the areas that we have talked about. “In fact, the COVID-19 propelled us to even have better health facilities as we speak today. It is point people have seen our sincerity and real dividends of democracy in all facets of life,” he said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com