THE German word  ‘realpolitik’ –  ‘real’  (practical)  and ‘politik’  (politics) – is often referred to as “pragmatism” in politics, i.e. taking pragmatic steps. While it’s used mostly as a positive term, realpolitik can also imply political steps that are amoral, or Machiavellian (ruthless; the end justifies the means). It’s been said this latter use of realpolitik deviates from the original meaning. My use of realpolitik belongs in this category, as I assess  the new situation where Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu and Vice President Yemi Osinbajo are both desirous of contesting for the office of the president. I make this clarification before some, who know it all, grumble “idiocy,”  as they did in the past because they understood my view based on the single definition they had in their heads of the central concept that I used. Here, I use realpolitik in its Machiavellian sense because, to me, the fact that Tinubu and Osinbajo will be contesting their party’s primary points to the determination on Osinbajo’s part to damn whatever consequences in order to get the result. On Tinubu’s part, his response that he has no political godson “grown enough to declare” means he’s seen that any past calculations he might have made didn’t work, so he’s determined to play hardball if he must fulfil his ambition. Last Friday, I noted that the latest dimension to the Tinubu-Osinbajo political relationship will dominate discourse before and after the primary, and that I shall return to this point. Now, I return. The other day, Osinbajo was in Ogun State where he said the only question he had had to ask himself and answer in the decision to declare was if he should keep faith with Nigerians. He said if he had come thus far, garnered the experiences he did, he felt he should put them to use for the purpose of making sure the lives of Nigerians got better. Osinbajo meant he did not need to bring into his calculations the ambition of Tinubu in whose cabinet he once served. Osinbajo’s comment in Ogun State meant he owed no one any apologies for being interested in the seat of the president. If Tinubu supported him to become the VP in 2014, and Tinubu did because he thought he would not be a rival in 2023, Osinbajo was now saying he would not be bound by such calculations. This kind of disposition means Osinbajo has gone Machiavellian; he has accepted Tinubu’s earlier declaration to play hardball. He is prepared to be ruthless, to go to the battlefield and fight for the seat he also desires. Osinbajo’s declaration has other implications. It has emboldened other politicians from the South-West to join the race. Now the list is longer. It is worth noting that the latest entrants did after Osinbajo declared. So, this has become a case of, if Osinbajo could be so Machiavellian (overlook political loyalty in order to achieve an end), “why not me?” Osinbajo is not the first to challenge Tinubu to a contest though. Ogbeni Rauf Aregebesola, a former governor of Osun State, also did a few weeks ago over who should be their All Progressives Congress’ Osun governorship candidate. It is, therefore, interesting that fellow South-Westerners are challenging Tinubu in a region where he is regarded as the unchallengeable Czar. Realpolitik is here; it is what everyone plays. As one with a political science background, I think any political scientist should be excited to objectively observe this new scenario. The political scientist who is emotional regarding the social phenomenon he observes isn’t well-trained. As I stated in the past, dispassionately watching and discussing phenomena in our polity is what I bring into journalism. For whatever happens in the polity is a study material for the political scientist;  the Tinubu and Osinbajo phenomenon is to be observed in order to analyse one of the occurrences in how we play the political game in Nigeria.  I find it amusing that some readers don’t like columnists who don’t display biases – religious, tribal and political.  Pretending to analyse while essentially projecting personal biases is something I find distasteful. Some columnists don’t inform people,  rather they intensify divisions among our people especially when they discuss primordial issues. A good analyst shouldn’t display biases. He’s to state facts and what he thinks the outcomes might be. Whoever has sound training in the social sciences gets my point. For the social scientist, like medical doctors who treat patients, treats a social phenomenon. It’s unprofessional that doctors display emotion over the patient they treat.  If any reader expects me to display biases, they’re reading the wrong journalist.  So, here I gave the backdrop I did regarding the Tinubu versus Osinbajo phenomenon not because I wanted to get involved in the now publicly declared contest between the two politicians, but because I needed to give a backdrop to the view I expressed. Note that realpolitik – hardball, the Machiavellian type – is what happens in Western nations even though they project their political contests as civilised. So alluding to the same context in Nigeria isn’t novel. There was that 2016 contest between Hillary Clinton and Donald Trump in the US. During the primaries the number of aspirants in either the Democratic Party or the Republican Party was about thirty. Two candidates emerged. Whoever took note of the reported actions and meetings of the Trump campaign team to undermine Clinton’s credibility would get the point I make here.  Trump’s son-in-law listened to a Russian who said they could help undermine Clinton. Her emails were leaked, and false messages about her were sent to marginal voters by the UK-based Cambridge Analytica, a political strategy planning entity that had since been dissolved. Those marginal voters in the states that had large electoral college delegates eventually gave Trump victory over Clinton who had more of the popular votes. Trump did what he had to do in order to fulfil his ambition. That’s one face of Machiavellian politics. Does anyone talk about morality in politics?  Then it’s not politics they’re talking about. Even in nations with glowing democratic credentials, politicians only talk about morality after they’ve deployed, sometimes, Machiavellian tactics to get power. This phenomenon doesn’t necessarily reflect my personal beliefs, it’s rather a dispassionate analysis of politicking by a journalist with a Political Science background. I think we’ve played bland, ‘safe politics’, long enough in Nigeria and it hasn’t helped us. I refer to the politics of claiming no one who has shown ambition to be president ever became president. Some had been selected on the basis of the reasoning that they didn’t show “too much ambition.” Such people ended up showing they didn’t know the kind of power they commanded as president and how to utilise it. This manner of putting people in office hasn’t been beneficial to Nigerians and it needs to stop. In my intervention some weeks ago, I explained why the participation of all those who wanted to be president would be beneficial to Nigerians; I won’t go into all of that again.  Here, I state that the scenario of keen contest that Tinubu, Osinbajo, and other members of their party who want the same seat have created will make us see clearly those who want to rule this nation, and for our people to really choose.  So let’s see the realpolitik that they’ve all vowed. I want our people to see that politician who the Yoruba say is able to sleep in the open in the worst of harmattans. Meanwhile, I note that the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), reportedly said he has a favourite candidate. But he had also promised a free, fair and transparent 2023 election when he spoke with foreign ambassadors in Nigeria at a meeting the other day. Now, even if he does his own lobbying for his favourite candidate, as most politicians do, I urge him to facilitate a free, fair and transparent party primary. It’ll be to his credit that there’s real contest and that the aspirant who enjoys the most political acceptance emerges. The realpolitik – the ensuing battle, the hardball, the Machiavellian kind of politicking –  that the current scenario has provoked in our polity has its benefits. For whoever won in the primaries would have demonstrated capacity to hold our nation and our diverse peoples together, politically.  Considering the current condition of our nation we need this going forward.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com