The Nigeria Liability Insurance Pool, NLIP, has urged member-companies to strengthen the pool by ceding more businesses into it as the insurance industry’s premium rises. The Chairman, NLIP, Adetola Adegbayi, said this while presenting the financial results of the pool at its 12th annual general meeting in Lagos. She said, “It is expected that the insurance industry’s gross premium will increase, hence the Pool expects more cessions of businesses from member companies as their business portfolio increases. Relationship building between the Pool and member companies is very crucial to achieve the aforementioned. “The addition of more/new members will verily reposition and make the Pool more visible within the insurance industry. The Pool has gone through a phase of physical restructuring and will continue the modification of its business process by being fully automated.” She said the Pool had an impressive financial performance in 2021 due to the collective efforts of the board, management, staff and members of the company. The chairman revealed that its gross premium grew by 10.73 per cent from N1.13bn in 2020 to N1.25bn in 2021, while the claims paid to member companies increased by 5.06 per cent from N252m in 2020 to N264m in 2021. Investment and income rose to N50.1m from N28.5m in 2020, representing a 75.8 per cent increase, while net surplus for the year was N339m from N279m in 2020, a 21.3 per cent rise. Significant improvements were recorded in the cession of businesses from member companies, she said. Adegbayi said the classes of business that had significant increases during the financial year under review were: Employers’ Contingent Liability (77.7 per cent); Builders’ and Occupiers Liability (38.7 per cent); Motor Third Party Liability (23 per cent); Director and Officers’ Liability (six per cent); Public Liability (5.4 per cent), Professional Indemnity (4.6 per cent). Workmen’s Compensation was the only class with a reduction of 19 per cent, she said. The chairman of the Pool said the board recommended a surplus of 190 kobo per share of N1 each for the financial period. Over the years, she added, the Pool had made efforts to have at its helms of affairs, a management team that was well experienced and a workforce that was adequately motivated to achieve the overall its objectives.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com