Climate activist and founder of Our Tomorrow Endowment, a pan African climate advocacy organisation, Emeka Obasi, has written to the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), demanding more action against the menace of climate change. Obasi, who commended Buhari’s commitment to tackling the challenge of climate change in the country and on the continent, encouraged the Nigerian leader to step up efforts by coordinating continental response against the challenge. The activist said he was prompted to set up his foundation because he was deeply concerned about the growing challenges of environmental pollution and climate change in Africa. Obasi said he was prompted to write to Buhari because it had become necessary to bring his attention to the true nature of the challenges. “Climate change and environmental pollution are matters I care strongly about, because I am aware of the danger they pose, particularly to our continent’s survival,” he said. The activist added, “April 22nd was the Earth day and the theme was ‘Invest in our planet.’ I have resolved to invest my time and contribute my quota to raise awareness about the impending dangers of climate change and environmental pollution. “My resolve in this respect was further strengthened when, while on a visit to Nigeria in January, I visited a number of communities that are already bearing the brunt of the environmental crisis. Mr. President, it was an unpleasant experience.” Obasi stated that in Ogoni in Rivers State, for example, the environment had been degraded by oil spills, farmlands had been destroyed and water bodies polluted. “In the Port Harcourt metropolis, black soot has become a terrifying fact of life. The people of the region complained bitterly because their means of livelihood, which revolves around fishing and farming, has been destroyed,” he said. Obasi stated that the situation was similar in most parts of the state and indeed the entire Niger Delta region. He said, “I also witnessed the threat that rising sea levels pose to inhabitants of the coastal areas of Lagos, and equally got acquainted with the devastating impact desertification is already having in the northern parts of the country. “Indeed, across Africa, we are witnessing the most severe effects of climate change. It has led to seasons of drought, excess floods and desertification which have exacerbated the security situation in the continent.” Obasi who praised Buhari’s presentation at Conference of Parties 26 in Glasgow, Scotland last year, however, regretted that not much had been done by way of action in its aftermath. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com