Ahead of the 2023 presidential election, a group based in the United States of America, Diaspora Council of Nigerian Youths, has described the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.)-led regime in eight years as a “monumental failure”. The group urged Nigerians to reject any presidential candidate supporting the continuity of the incumbent president and his All Progressives Congress. President of the council, Yinka Gbadebo, and General Secretary, Dr. Bashir Dasuki, stated this in a statement released on Thursday, at the end of an emergency meeting, held at the Waldorf Astoria, Chigaco, Illinois, USA, and made available to newsmen. “We are emboldened by President Buhari’s monumental failure to say that the people of Nigeria should reject him, those who believe in continuity of failure and his All Progressives Congress, APC, and look for a Nigerian who calls it black when it is black and white when it is white,” the council stated. The statement read in part, “The Council reflected on the current political situation and continuous deterioration of the Nigerian state vis-a-vis the abysmal performance of the APC led administration and affirmed that the party has clearly failed Nigerians and damaged the nation’s reputation almost to a point of no redemption through it apparent lack of ideas and lackadaisical approach towards the delivery of good governance and its own avowed electoral promises. “The council notes with sadness that all promises made by President Buhari in 2015 had been mere campaign rhetoric. Nigeria has never been this divided, insecure and economically backwards.” The council noted that Nigeria was never bad under the PDP, “as a matter of fact, the last PDP administration made giant strides in revamping the economy to a point where Nigeria was one of the fastest-growing economies in the world. Unfortunately, the progress made during that period has been totally eroded by the maladministration of the APC goons.” The statement read further, “PDP can stage a comeback to the Presidential villa if Governor Nyesom Wike is supported to pick the Presidential ticket of the party. “Amongst the lots currently traversing the length and breadth of Nigeria, seeking the highest office in the land, Governor Wike of Rivers possesses the distinctive drive, goodwill and requisite gumption for transformative leadership. Nobody amongst the Presidential aspirants comes close in terms of performance in public office. “In the last seven years he has been saddled with governance responsibilities in Rivers State, evidence abounds that he has performed beyond the promises he made during the electioneering process and even consolidated on his performances in his second term than he did the first tenure.”