The Sultan of Sokoto, Alhaji Sa’ad Abubakar lll, has decried the killing of Harira Jibrin, and her four children at Isulo in Orumba North Local Government Area of Anambra State by unknown gunmen. The Sultan who leads the Jama’atul Nasril Islam, condemned the dastardly act, describing the killing as senseless and barbaric. He also urged the Federal Government to spare no efforts in smoking out the unknown gunmen from the hideouts with immediate effects. The Sultan, who is the spiritual leader of Nigerian Muslims, also condemned the recurring heartless and calamitous unprovoked killings and maiming across the country as result of insecurity. The JNI statement read in part,
“At the instance of its President-General, His Eminence, the Sultan of Sokoto Alhaji(Dr.) Muhammad Sa’adu Abubakar, CFR, mni, the Jama’atu Nasril Islam condemns the senseless, barbaric and unprovoked killing of one Harira Jibrin; a pregnant woman with four of her children at Isulo in Orumba North Local Government Area of Anambra State. “The incident is just but an addition to the series of many other killings meted, particularly to Muslims in the South-Eastern States of Nigeria. “The recurring heartless and calamitous unprovoked killings and maiming over there, as well as across other parts of the country are, to say the least condemnable. “JNI has painfully, with dismay been observing the orchestrated unchecked atrocities dished out to many innocent Muslim menial trader’s wares including animals. “The attitude, in effect, depicts the most unfortunate high level of hatred and impunity. The JNI feels that it was high time the governments acted lest things get out of hand.” It added, “In light of the forgone, we call on governments at all levels to, as a matter of urgency, do everything possible and use any means possible to curtail the situation and arrest all those who are behind the ongoing killings in the South-Eastern Nigeria, before it is too late. “Government must spare no efforts to immediately take control of all forests and swampy areas that have become hideouts for criminals. Examples should be set by speedily arresting and prosecuting all criminals, devoid of legal encumbrances. Constituting commissions of inquiry should NOT be the only way to go. Hence, government should intensify efforts in identifying and prosecuting the so called unknown gunmen.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com