One of the six members representing Kwara State in the House of Representatives, Abdulganiyu Cook-Olododo, has declared his intention to contest the Kwara State governorship seat in the 2023 election. Olododo, who presently represents Ilorin East/Ilorin South Federal Constituency on the platform of the All Progressives Congress, declared his intention when he hosted the Ilorin East and South CWC Ward Executives in Ilorin on Tuesday. He, however, said that he would contest under the platform of the Social Democratic Party. Olododo is now billed to challenge incumbent Governor, Abdulrahman AbdulRazaq who is contesting for a second term. Speaking during the stakeholders’ meeting, Olododo said that his decision to contest was not anchored on his personal will or do-or-die affairs. He said, “My ambition is a drive to serve our dear State as a result of calls from various political and other interest groups across the state who are clamouring for a better alternative to good governance, urging me to contest for the exalted position as governor. “The people are calling on me to contest for having seen my impact, the unprecedented achievements, selfless contribution towards the development of my federal constituency as a legislator and my antecedent as former a local government chairman, a commissioner, Chief-of-Staff and Secretary to the State Government to our dear state. “They said they need me for my all-inclusive administration in order to bridge the gap of communication between the government and the governed and also to serve as a unifying factor amongst the youths, elders and the leadership of our great party. “It’s in the light of this aforementioned that I wish to humbly request your support and prayers in actualising this clarion interest and aspiration.” Also speaking, the leader of the delegation, Abdulrasheed Abdulsalam, commended the legislator for answering the clarion call, describing the lawmaker as a round peg in a round hole. According to Abdulsalam, “Considering Mr Olododo’s political antecedent and administrative experience, most especially his outstanding performance and landmark achievements as a legislator, he is worthy of the seat.” He said further that “Olododo’s leadership acumen and achievements in terms of construction of classrooms, solar-powered motorised boreholes, healthcare centres, road networks, electricity, agriculture, social and human capital development cutting across his federal constituency is next to none. “I hope you will extensively replicate these achievements across the 16 Local Government Areas across the state. “Let me use this opportunity to thank and appreciate you for standing by the party always. You are truly a party man who represented the leadership of our dream,” Abdulsalam remarked. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com