The National Council on Education has indicted 20 secondary schools in Bayelsa State for alleged involvement in examination malpractices during the 2021/2022 terminal examinations recently organised by the West African Examinations Council and the National Examinations Council in the country. The Director of Secondary Education Department in the state Ministry of Education, Jacob Osusu, announced this on Wednesday at a one-day sensitisation programme themed, ‘Examination malpractices in public and private secondary schools and its effects: The way forward, in Yenagoa.’ According to him, 23 teachers were found guilty of allegedly aiding and abetting examination malpractices. Osusu said out of the 20 indicted secondary schools, five had been derecognised as examination centres in the state. He added that the remaining 15 were handed stern warnings based on the degree of the offences committed. He said, “Five schools were derecognised. They comprise four public schools and one private school based on different forms of examination malpractices with candidates colluding with one another, topping the list of offences. “While 15 other secondary schools were given warning letters based on similar reasons. “Also, 23 participants (teachers) in the WAEC/NECO were blacklisted and dropped from further supervision of such examinations.” He called on the state Ministry of Education and the state government to punish principals of secondary schools found culpable to discourage the rising rate of examination malpractices in schools. In his remarks, the Commissioner for Education, Gentle Emelah, said the government had noted the council’s decision. He said the state lacked sufficient teachers, stressing that “those available should ensure that students are well-groomed to face the challenges of examinations without involving in malpractices.” Also speaking, the permanent secretary in the state ministry of education, Christopher Ewhrudjakpo, said the report of the national council on education had been forwarded to the state Governor, Douye Diri, to mete out appropriate sanctions that would be recommended to serve as a deterrent to others. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com