NIGER State Governor, Abubakar Bello, has revealed that the state government saved over N200 million from by uncovering ghost pensioners on its payroll. Bello, who made this known during the International Workers Day celebration by the Niger State Council of the Nigeria Labour Congress on Wednesday in Minna, said the state government has saved unclaimed pensions in the past four months at the state and local government levels. The Secretary to the State Government, Ahmed Matane, who represented the governor, said that the unclaimed pension is the outcome of the screening exercise organised by the government where thousands of ghost pensioners were uncovered. “The struggle for the welfare of workers is dynamic, and we must continue to strengthen it. We must continue to identify our little contributions towards quality development of the civil service without any element of sabotage.” he said. Speaking during the occasion, the state NLC Chairman, Yakubu Garba, said the theme for the International Labour Day, “Labour, Politics and the Quest for Good Governance and Development in Nigeria,” shows the resolve of the Organized Labour in Nigeria to participate in the 2023 political process fully and beyond. He added that the organised labour in state has 21 demands for the state government, including the government stepping up action to ensure that the state is secured, especially as the rainy season approaches so that farmers can engage in farming activities safely. He added that compliance with the Civil Service Scheme, Niger State Joint Account Principal Law, and renewing its commitment to addressing dilapidating infrastructures across the state and LGAs are parts of their demands. “Other demands centred on payment of outstanding salary arrears to local government workers, the implementation of Consequential Adjustments for workers on GL 6 and above across 25 LGAs in Niger State, and the implementation of all outstanding promotions for workers at the state and LGA levels,” he added. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com