A women’s group under the auspices of the Dolapo Osinbajo Friends and Fans has said they’re optimistic that Vice-President Yemi Osinbajo would clinch the All Progressives Congress presidential ticket in the upcoming primary elections. The Director-General and Convener of DOFF, Alhaja Kaji-Hausa, said this during a rally held today in Abuja, in support of the Vice-president’s presidential aspiration. She said, “We are optimistic that the Vice-President, Professor Yemi Osinbajo, would emerge victorious at the forthcoming APC presidential primary elections. We aim to ensure that the Vice-President returns to Aso Villa as President in 2023. “We organised this rally to inform Nigerians of the need to vote for Vice-President Osinbajo massively in the forthcoming presidential election in 2023 to attain a better life for all Nigerians. “And for the good people in the APC to ensure that the Vice-President clinches the party’s presidential ticket at the primary because he is the man whom the cap fits, and he would deliver as promised. “Contrary to what is being said in some quarters, Osinbajo is not a betrayer. He never betrayed the former governor of Lagos State, Bola Tinubu, or any other person. “We are in support of his aspiration and candidacy because we believe that he is the right man for the job. He is a Professor of Law and has held several positions as a civil servant, and now as the Vice-President of our great nation, hence it is only right to rally support for him to be our next president. Kaji-Hausa also stated that women and youths across the country and in the diaspora are in support of the aspiration of the Vice-President. “As you can see, judging by the crowd of women and youths, including young children who are here today in support of Professor Osinbajo, it is evident that women and young people are in support of his aspiration, and millions of them across the country are ready to assure him success at the polls in 2023. “Professionals are also in support of his aspirations. Youths, students, and even artisans yearn to have Osinbajo as the country’s next president. We have garnered support from far and wide, at home and in the diaspora, and we are certain of victory for him at the primary and the polls in 2023.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com