Former Lagos State Governor, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, was in Katsina on Monday in connection with the forthcoming presidential primaries of the All Progressives Congress. Tinubu, who is also a presidential aspirant on the platform of the APC, met with Governor Aminu Masari, the state party executives and delegates and solicited their support for him to emerge the party’s candidate in the 2023 presidential election. He told them that apart from possessing a track record and experience to lead Nigeria, he would serve the country with all his strength. Tinubu added that if he emerged the party’s presidential candidate and eventually won the presidential election, he would tackle banditry and other crimes, see to the improvement in electricity generation and supply, ensure education of all children, irrespective of family background and see to improvement in infrastructural development of Nigeria. He also pledged to support agriculture, industrialisation and move education forward in the country, assuring them that incessant strike actions by university lecturers would be over. He said,  “Anybody can run. Not everybody can be a leader. There are candidates and there are aspirants. I am a candidate. Whichever way, Nigeria is our nation. God has blessed this country. “I am here to meet you, my brothers and sisters to beg and secure your support for the primaries.  We have to stage primaries before one becomes a presidential candidate. You are very important to me for that. I come to unite Nigeria and not to divide Nigeria. “Anybody can run for the presidency, but not everybody can be the President. I am extremely different from other candidates who promise fake agenda. If I become the President, I will take care of all abandoned projects for the economic development of the country. “I am contesting to change the country for good and I say you will never regret for giving me your support.” Also, a former Vice President and presidential aspirant of the Peoples Democratic Party, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, has accused the ruling APC of causing disunity among diverse elements of the country. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com