The Queen’s School Ede/Ibadan Old Girls Association has inaugurated a multipurpose hall built and named after the late Dr Stella Adadevoh. Adadevoh, who was the lead endocrinologist at a private hospital in Lagos, prevented a Liberian, Patrick Sawyer, who became the Ebola virus index case in Nigeria in 2014, from spreading the virus in the country, thus saving many lives while she herself died of the disease. The QSOGA, who paid glowing tributes to Adadevoh, who was part of the 1969-1973 set of the Queen’s School, Ede/Ibadan said they built the multipurpose hall in her honour to motivate the younger generation to be committed and selfless in the discharge of their duties. The President of QSOGA, Dr Taiwo Adamson, said the foundation of the edifice was laid less than a year ago and expressed gratitude to donors and old girls for their untiring sacrificial giving. She said, “The dwindling resources from the government, resulting in infrastructural decay, inadequate complement of teachers among other deficits galvanised the alumnae members to employ and pay 15 teachers’ salaries. “Alumnae members have engaged, in building new classroom blocks, renovating, supplying laboratory equipment and the like. I thank you all. I need to put on record, that the alumnae members contributed over 30 per cent  of the funds, for the Ameyo building, we are inaugurating today, thank you. “We as an alumnae association, hereby, appeal to the Federal Government to rename the Infections Disease Hospital Yaba as Dr Ameyo Stella Adadevoh Infectious Disease Hospital, Yaba. “Our letter of appeal has been forwarded to the Federal Government through the honourable Minister of Health, Dr Osagie Ehanire.” Sir Kensington Adebutu, who was represented by the Balogun Ode Remo, Chief Kola Oyefeso, said Adebutu was honoured to be part of the project. One of the donors and a friend of the school, Dr Bola Babalakin, in an interview with journalists, also called on the Federal Government to name a national monument after Adadevoh. Governor Seyi Makinde, who was represented by the Commissioner for Education, Abdulrahman Abdulraheen, lauded the contributions of QSOGA to the development of education in the state. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com