The Chairman, Nigerian Bar Association – Section on Public Interest Development Law, Monday Ubani, on Wednesday condemned the attempt by federal lawmakers to criminalise ransom payment by kidnap victims. Ubani spoke at a press conference in Lagos on Wednesday to announce the association’s forthcoming 2022 Annual Conference in Sokoto. The Senate had passed a bill seeking to amend the Terrorism (Prevention) Act, 2013, and prohibit the payment of ransom to kidnappers in Nigeria. But Ubani said, “It is very appalling that the same country that has failed to provide security to the people it governs is embarking on a ‘suicide mission’ of criminalising ransom payment by the very victims that are helpless and desperate to save the lives of their loved ones. “This piece of legislation under contemplation lacks logic and wisdom and the House of Representatives is hereby advised to jettison the Bill without any further consideration. “It does not make any sense at all! Instead, the Legislature is strongly advised to focus on laws that will strengthen national security and protection of lives and property, assuming there is a lacuna.” The lawyer also maintained that victims of kidnap pay ransoms out of desperation and helplessness, knowing that the state has failed and is unable to protect lives and property or secure the release of their loved ones from kidnappers’ den. Ubani also expressed shock at the number of presidential aspirants buying Expression of Interest forms from their various political parties at exorbitant fees. He advised Nigerians to be alert and ‘shine their eyes’ to avoid the “grave error of the past.” The Annual Conference with the theme ‘Rule of Law and Democratic Evolution in Nigeria’ will hold from May 22 to May 26, 2022 in Sokoto. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com