A human rights lawyer, Festus Ogun, has called on the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), to urgently sack the Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria, Godwin Emefiele. The lawyer made the call in response to a report that the All Progressives Congress Expression of Interest and Nomination forms have been purchased for Emefiele to contest the 2023 presidential election by his supporters. A coalition comprising Rice Farmers Association, Emefiele Support Group and Friends of Godwin on Friday reportedly obtained the forms for him. The CBN governor had denied having an interest in the presidency but has yet to speak on the collection of forms. Ogun expressed fear that the treasury of Nigeria is no longer safe in the hands of Emefiele. He said, “CBN Governor, Godwin Emefiele, has picked the  APC N100m presidential nomination and expression of interest form. Clearly, this is illegal, morally reprehensible and weakens whatever is left of our institutions. “Section 9 of the CBN Act, 2007 provides that ‘the governor and the deputy governors shall devote the whole of their time to the service of the bank, and while holding office, shall not engage in any full or part-time employment or vocation, whether remunerated or not’. “Politics is a vocation and the CBN Governor is not allowed by law to engage in partisan politics. It is unthinkable that Emefiele, despite his embarrassing failures, will disregard law and morality to vie for President under the ruling APC. Our national vault is no longer safe. “Mr. Godwin Emefelie must immediately resign his position as CBN Governor to save our country from this unthinkable absurdity. The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) must immediately commence thorough investigation into Emefiele’s period in office. “Finally, I call on President Muhammadu Buhari to invoke his statutory powers under Section 11(2) of the CBN Act to sack Emefiele. The National Assembly and civil society organizations are equally enjoined to intervene in this peculiar institutional desecration. All is not well.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com