An Oyo State High Court has convicted one Timothy Oluwaseun Oni and Abdulwahab Oladimeji Muhammed on a separate one amended charge bordering on criminal impersonation. The court presided over by Justice Bayo Taiwo, convicted the defendants after they pleaded guilty to the charges preferred against them by the Ibadan Zonal Command of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission. The Head, Media and Publicity of EFCC,Wilson Uwujaren said this in a statement on Thursday. Justice Taiwo, after considering the facts of the cases and the evidence by the prosecution, held that the prosecution had proved the cases and sentenced the convicts to six months community service each. In addition to the jail terms, the judge ordered Oni to restitute the sum of $2,000USD (Two Thousand United States Dollars) to his victim and forfeit one 2011 Mercedes Benz car, one iPhone 12 Pro Max mobile phone, a Samsung Galaxy S8 phone and one Apple iPad. He also ordered Abdulwahab to pay the sum of N311, 573.00 (Three Hundred and Eleven Thousand, Five Hundred and Seventy Three Naira) found in his Kuda Microfinance Bank Account as restitution. In a related development, Justice Nathaniel Ayo-Emmanuel of the Federal High Court sitting in Osogbo, Osun State, on Monday, May 23, 2022, convicted and sentenced one Emmanuel Ifeanyi Odinaka to six months imprisonment on one count charge bordering on internet fraud. The count reads,”That you, Emmanuel Ifeanyi Odinaka (a.k.a Mary Cathy) sometime in 2021, within the jurisdiction of this Honourable Court, with intent to gain advantage for yourself did impersonate one Mary Cathy, the pretext you knew to be false and thereby committed an offence contrary to Section 22 (2) (b) (i) and punishable under Section 22 (2) (b) the Cybercrime (Prohibition, Prevention, Etc.)Act, 2015.” He pleaded “guilty” to the charge upon arraignment. Justice Ayo-Emmanuel afterwards, convicted and sentenced Ifeanyi to six months imprisonment. Furthermore, the convict was ordered to restitute the sum of $250USD (Two Hundred and Fifty United States Dollars) and forfeit one iPhone 8 Plus mobile phone to the Federal Government of Nigeria. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com