The Bauchi State Governor, Bala Mohammed, has said that he would support whoever emerged as the Peoples Democratic Party’s presidential flag bearer from the party’s primary slated later for this month (May), to contest the 2023 presidential election. The PUNCH had reported that the governor, who’s also one of the party’s presidential aspirants and a former Senate President, Abubakar Bukola Saraki, were controversially endorsed by the Prof Ango Abdullahi-led Northern Elders’ Forum as Northern consensus candidates. Mohammed, while speaking with journalists shortly after paying a private visit to a former governor of Kaduna State, Senator Ahmed Makarfi, in the state capital on Wednesday, said he would render his support to whoever emerged as the party flag bearer in a transparent, credible party primary. This, the governor said, was to ensure that the party reclaimed the presidency from the “inefficient” All Progressives Congress-led regime of the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), after his tenure in 2023. He said he was optimistic that Makarfi and other leading lights of the party would do the right thing to ensure that the party came out intact after the convention. Mohammed, who said he was in Kaduna to pay a Sallah homage to Makarfi, said, “Well this is the moment to reach out in the usual Islamic tradition whenever Ramadan comes to an end. As Muslims in the first week of Shawwal, we usually go out and greet those we respect and our brothers. And Senator Makarfi is one of our leaders who has touched my life and he is somebody, I respect so much. His pedigree, his antecedents in the Senate and even in governance, is unparalleled. “We learnt a lot from him. So yesterday, I was in Sokoto and Jigawa. From here I am going to Katsina to see another person. “So I am in Kaduna to say ‘Barka da Sallah’ and to wish him (Makarfi) well and of course to tell him that his brother in Bauchi is thinking of him in goodwill and in fraternity. Of course, we are looking up to him as a major stakeholder in our party to ensure that the party come out of the convention intact. “We have a tradition as a party on how leaders, as well as political offices, are shared. Don’t forget, we led this country for sixteen years. If you look at the previous conventions, we have always come out intact. This is because it is not about individual aspirations. “So, what we want to see as presidential aspirants and delegates is to have a credible, acceptable and transparent primary. And we are ready to work with whoever emerges other than being selfish. “So, more than ever before, the current PDP leadership has allowed each of the candidates to go out and canvass for votes. This is what we have been doing but we have the firm belief that at the end of the day, one person must emerge as the flagbearer of our great party. Whoever emerges, if it is not me, I am ready to support him.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com