SHAREHOLDERS of Fidelity Bank Plc, on Thursday, endorsed the payment of a cash dividend of 35 kobo per share to all shareholders whose names appeared in the register of members at the close of business on April 22, 2022. A statement said the shareholders gave the nod and commended the bank at its 34th annual general meeting in Lagos. The shareholders authorised the board of directors “To undertake as it deems appropriate and in accordance with applicable laws, any actions, business combinations or transactions, including but not limited to investment, acquisition, restructuring, capital raising, expansion or business arrangement required to secure a competitive advantage for the company.” The Chairman, Fidelity Bank, Mustafa Chike-Obi, reassured shareholders at the AGM that the board and management of the bank would maintain the high corporate governance standard synonymous with Fidelity Bank and also ensure it continued in its growth trajectory in the years ahead. “We will continue to strengthen our enterprise risk management capabilities to ensure the sustainability of our business, while modelling our governance practices to align with international best practices,” Chike-Obi said. He noted that the last fiscal year was a period of consolidation and growth in the bank. Chike-Obi said, “Despite the challenges in the operating environment, we were resolute in the execution of our strategy. We paid particular attention to optimising our balance sheet and strengthening our risk management structures. “We aggressively pursued an automation framework to increase digital footprints and migrate more customers to electronic platforms. “These initiatives drove the achievement of our performance objectives. Profit before tax increased by 35.7 per cent from N28.05bn in the 2020 financial year to N38.07bn in the review period. Deposits grew by 19.2 per cent to close at N2.02tn.” He added that, “Risk assets rose by 25.1 per cent to close at N1.66tn and total assets by 19.3 per cent to N3.29tn. It is important to note that this is the best set of results in our corporate history.” Going forward, he said, the business would be driven by technology and innovation. He said, “We will optimise current processes through digitisation and automation to allow for improved service quality. We will deploy predictive tools to enhance customer experience. “In recent times, there has been a significant increase in migration of skilled manpower from Nigeria to more developed economies.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com