…Olujimi, Oduah, Uba, others win senatorial tickets, Gbajabiamila, Wase win Reps slots More results emerged on Friday from the governorship, senatorial and House of Representatives primaries of some political parties across the country. Some of the governorship candidates who emerged on Friday include the immediate-past Chief of Air Staff, Air Marshal Sadique Abubakar, who won the All Progressives Congress ticket in Bauchi State; Senator Uba Sani, an ally and preferred candidate of Governor Nasir El-Rufai of Kaduna State, who won the APC ticket in the state; while a female senator, Aishatu Dahiru Binani, won the party’s ticket in Adamawa State. To clinch the party’s ticket, Binani defeated the pioneer Chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, Mallam Nuhu Ribadu; a former governor of the state, Jibrilla Bindow; a member of the House of Representatives and its former spokesperson, Abdulrazak Namdas; Mr Wafari Theman; and a former acting Managing Director of the Nigerian Ports Authority, Umar Mustapha. There were however allegations of vote-buying and over-voting in the primary. Binani polled 430 votes to defeat her strongest contender, Ribadu, who polled 288 votes. In Kaduna State, Uba Sani, who represents Kaduna Central, defeated a former House of Representatives member and an in-law to the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.); Alhaji Sani Sha’aban; and a former Assistant Controller of Customs, Bashir Abubakar, to clinch the APC ticket. The lawmaker polled 1,149 votes to defeat his challengers, but Sha’aban  rejected the result of the election, describing it as a charade. Sha’aban, who had previously vowed to resist any imposition, told journalists on Thursday night that he had petitioned INEC over the irregularities. He asked his supporters to await his next decision. In Bauchi State, the former Chief of Air Staff, who was Nigeria’s Ambassador to Chad before he resigned to contest the primary, polled 370 votes to beat six other aspirants. The Senator representing Bauchi Central, Haliru Jika, came second with 278 votes; a former Commissioner for Finance, Nura Manu Soro, 269 votes; a former Chairman, Tertiary Education Trust Fund Board of Trustees, Dr Musa Babayo, 70 votes; a former House of Representatives member, Faruk Mustapha, 26 votes; former Secretary to the Bauchi State Government, Mahmood Maijama’a, eight votes; while a former Minister of State for Health, Prof Ali Pate, got zero vote. One of the aspirants, Muhammad Al-Amin, withdrew from the contest few hours to the commencement of the primary on Thursday. In Katsina State, a former Senator, Yakubu Lado Danmarke, emerged as the PDP governorship candidate. He polled 740 votes to defeat three other contestants, including Alhaji Salisu Majigiri, 257 votes; Ahmed Yar’Adua, 53 votes and Shehu Inuwa Imam, 44 votes. In the Katsina, Dr Dikko Radda was declared winner of the governorship ticket. He  defeated eight other aspirants. Olujimi gets return ticket to Senate In Ekiti State, the senator representing Ekiti South Senatorial District, Mrs Biodun Olujimi, won the PDP ticket. She got the ticket through affirmation as a consensus candidate following the withdrawal of former House of Representatives member, Segun Adekola. Amid controversy, Uba, Oduah win PDP senatorial tickets in Anambra In Anambra State, Chief Chris Uba emerged as the PDP candidate for the Anambra South Senatorial District. Also, the senator representing Anambra North Senatorial District and former Aviation minister, Mrs Stella Oduah, also won the party’s ticket to contest the election. Gbajabiamila, Wase, other Rep win APC tickets The Speaker of the House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila, won the APC ticket for Surulere 1 Federal Constituency in Lagos State. He emerged unopposed, garnering all the 30 votes. A statement by his Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Lanre Lasisi, said Gbajabiamila, who has been a member of the House since 2003, was the only aspirant who obtained forms to contest the seat for a record sixth time. In a related development, the Deputy Speaker of the House, Ahmed Wase, also emerged as the APC candidate for the Wase Federal Constituency in Plateau State. Meanwhile, the lawmaker representing Nasarawa Federal Constituency in Kano State at the House, Nassir Ali Ahmed, won the primary to clinch the ticket of the APC. Ahmed, who is Chairman of the House Committee on Public Procurement, is seeking re-election for a fourth term. In Niger State, another member of the House, Umar Bago, of Chanchagi Federal Constituency, won the governorship ticket of the APC. Onyeagocha, Onyereri floor incumbent lawmakers in Imo In Imo State, a former member of the House of Representatives, Uche Onyeagocha, emerged as the PDP candidate for Imo East (Owerri zone) senatorial district, defeating the incumbent senator, Ezenwa Onyewuchi. Also, a former member of the House of Representatives, Jones Onyereri, clinched the ticket of the PDP for Imo West (Orlu zone) Senatorial district. Earlier, Emma Okewulonu was returned as the winner of the Imo North (Okigwe zone) Senatorial District. He polled 132 votes to defeat a former Commissioner for Commerce and Industry, Ifeanyi Araraume, who got 61 votes. Also, 26 out of the 27 state House of Assembly primaries were returned while that of Ideato North LGA was declared inconclusive due to over-voting. Also a former member of the House of Representatives, Obinna Onwubuariri, scored 26 votes to defeat a former Commissioner for Women Affairs, Nkiru Ibekwe, who got 25 votes for the Okigwe North Federal Constituency ticket. A former deputy speaker of the state House of Assembly, Jonas Okeke, was declared the winner of the Okigwe South Federal Constituency primary election. In Edo State, the Chairman, House Committee on Legislative Compliance, Mr Dennis Idahosa, has secured APC’s return ticket for the House of Representatives to represent Ovia Federal Constituency. Also, Osaro Obazee, a former chairman of Oredo Local Government Area, emerged the APC candidate for Oredo Federal Constituency. He contested unopposed and garnered 55 votes in a shadow election that was held in Benin City, the state capital. In Ebonyi State, an APC governorship aspirant in the just concluded primary, Senator Julius Ucha, has threatened to sue the immediate past Chairman of the Revenue Mobilisation, Allocation and Fiscal Commission, Elias Mbam, over the inclusion of his name as a participant in a parallel governorship primary election conducted in Abakaliki, the Ebonyi State capital, on Thursday. Mbam on Thursday conducted a parallel governorship primary in Ebonyi at his campaign office along old Enugu Road, where he emerged as the winner with 741 votes. Ucha, who was included as a participant in the parallel primary election, scored four votes. The visibly angry senator told journalists on Friday in Abakaliki, “I won’t allow anybody to put the goodwill I have enjoyed from Ebonyi people in jeopardy, and that is what Engr Elias Mbam is trying to do. There is a limit to the patience I can exercise since he is my in-law, but if he doesn’t retract it, I can take legal action against him.” Copyright PUNCH All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com