The Katsina Police Command on Wednesday said its operatives, in collaboration with vigilantes in Dutsinma Local Government, on Tuesday, killed six terrorists in the council. The team was also said to have recovered one AK 47 rifle and some rustled animals in the council. The command’s spokesman, Gambo Isah, disclosed this at a press conference in Katsina.. He explained that at about 1.45am, the team received a distress call that terrorists had attacked Dantakiri village in the council and rustled an unspecified number of domestic animals. The Area Commander, Dutsinma, reportedly led a team of policemen and vigilantes and blocked the terrorists at Mararabar-Sayaya in Matazu Local Government Area, leading to a gun duel between the team and the terrorists. He added, “The team engaged the hoodlums in a fierce gun duel, neutralised six terrorists, and recovered 86 cows and 101 sheep and goats. “In scanning the scene, one AK 47 rifle was also recovered. It is reasonably suspected that some of the terrorists escaped the scene with gunshot wounds. Search parties are still combing the nearby bushes to arrest the injured terrorists and recover their dead bodies and operational weapons.” The command’s spokesman also revealed that on the same day, at about 2am, a distress call was received that terrorists armed with AK 47 attacked the farm of one retired Assistant Inspector General of Police  at Dabaibayawa village and rustled all the domestic animals there. According to Isah, the officer-in-charge of the Anti-Kidnapping Unit as well as the Divisional Police Officers of Batagarawa and Batsari were alerted to pursue and block the hoodlums as they moved towards Rugu forest with the rustled animals. He explained, “The team succeeded and intercepted the terrorists at Kandawa village, Batsari Local Government Area. The team engaged the terrorists in a fierce gun duel. It succeeded in repelling them and recovering all the rustled domestic animals comprising 24 cows and 141 goats and sheep. The investigation is ongoing.” The police spokesman also revealed how security operatives recently burst syndicates of car thieves operating in the state.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com