The President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari has said the King David University of Medical Sciences in Ebonyi State will be taken over by the Federal Government. Buhari said this on Thursday when he visited Ebonyi State for the inauguration of some projects by Governor David Umahi. Appreciating Umahi for the reception, Buhari acknowledged the economic and infrastructural development he witnessed in the state. He said, “I have noted the significant projects executed by Your Excellency in the last seven years. You have done your people proud. I am pleased by the economic development records of the state under your administration, the wonderful network of roads, critical infrastructure, and investment opportunity that you have created in the state. “I have noted the progress in the economic performance index of the state, particularly the budget office rating and the SFTAS commendable records about your budgeting principles. “I commend the state for emerging as the second-best overall in fiscal performance in Nigeria and for scoring high in discipline, transparency and accountability in the use of public resources.” It shows zero tolerance for corruption and waste of public funds. “I have decided to accept the offer of your government to take over the University of Medical Sciences. The process has begun and will be concluded soon.” Some of the projects inaugurated by the President include the King David University of Medical Sciences Twin Flyover, 12 km dualised federal road constructed with concrete from Uburu to Mpu, the King David University School Building, and the Teaching Hospital, the University Cancer Centre, the President Muhammadu Buhari airport lounge, the dualised airport concrete road coated with asphalts, the St. Margaret Umahi International Market and the President Muhammadu Buhari Presidential Lodge at the new government House, Ochudo Centenary City, Abakaliki.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com