The governorship candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party in the June 18 election in Ekiti State, Bisi Kolawole, has said that if elected, his government will tackle insecurity with a view to attract investors and job. Kolawole, who said security of lives and property was a key responsibility of government, said the thrust of the policies and programmes of his administration would be to ensure better lives for the citizenry and development of the land and people. The PDP candidate spoke in Ado Ekiti on Sunday while unveiling his six-point agenda anchored on participatory governance; security of lives and property; agricultural development and food security; infrastructural development; provision of social services; and sustainable environment. According to him, his government would tackle the recurrent cases of kidnapping, ICT fraud and farmers-herders’ clashes to protect the citizens and boost agriculture for sustainable development and attaining of food security status in Ekiti. He said, “When people are protected, investors will be ready to set up cottage industries in Ekiti. And when Fulani invaders are checked, farmers will be willing to go to farm for production and when youths are engaged, they won’t engage in yahoo yahoo and other nefarious acts. This is what we will do.” The PDP candidate said he would devise every means to defray the N37.8billion pension and gratuity arrears allegedly owed by the state government by carrying the retirees along in governance and prioritising their welfare. He clarified that he would not be a stooge to former Governor Ayodele Fayose, but that the former governor would be a plus to his administration in terms of guidance, advice and contributions to governance based on his experiences as a two term state chief executive. Kolawole reiterated that he would legalise the ‘Stomach Infrastructure’ concept invented by Fayose through a law, so that low earning workers, poor citizens, unemployed youths, petty traders  and pensioners could be enlisted as automatic beneficiaries. He said, “Our government shall ensure the provision of high quality education at all levels. Our plans in this regard include providing conducive learning environment, developing skills, values and attitudes and applying innovative ideas for the overall good of Ekiti people. “Under the foregoing concept, appropriate emphasis will be placed on digital, technical and vocational education to attend to our unemployed youth. We will create wealth by giving micro credit to traders and youth, and most importantly we will encourage setting up of cottage industries by giving tax holidays and ensure that Ekiti is secured.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com