The President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.); President of the Senate, Ahmed Lawan; Lagos State Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu; Jigawa State Governor, Mohammed Badaru; Edo State Governor, Godwin Obaseki; Ogun State Governor, Dapo Abiodun; Kano State Governor, Abdullahi Ganduje, and Yobe State Governor, Mai Mala Buni, were among prominent Nigerians who on Sunday congratulated Muslims on the successful completion of this year’s Ramadan fast. In his congratulatory message, Buhari boasted that the final victory over terrorists in the country is near. He promised that his regime will ensure that there is no shortage of funds to provide security for Nigerians. His Eid-el-fitr message was contained in a statement by his Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity, Garba Shehu, titled ‘Sallah: President Buhari appraises security situation, assures of funding.’ The statement quoted the president as saying that, “The battle waged against terrorists who falsely masquerade under the name of Islam is approaching its conclusion. “The fight has been long and hard. Final victory is within sight. Boko Haram and its offshoots’ final embers are now fading. Last month, the leader of ISWAP was killed in an airstrike. Since the New Year, thousands of fighters have surrendered to enter rehabilitation programmes. “The territories they used to occupy are now seeing the return of those who were forced to flee their barbarity. Normality is finally beginning to return to the Northeast. It is a long process. Yet it is one we are, together, now embarking upon. “With the designation of bandit groups as terrorists, the challenges of banditry and kidnapping are being tackled differently in the North-western and North Central states where the latest military acquisitions and the Armed Forces are being fanned out across the region to thwart acts of terror.” In his Sallah message, the President of the Senate, Ahmad Lawan, advised Muslim faithful to imbibe the lessons of self restraint, sacrifice, charity and sharing with their neighbours and the needy, in their daily lives. He made the call in a statement made available to The PUNCH by his Special Adviser (Media), Ola Awoniyi. “As Nigerians, we should avoid whatever that is forbidden by our faith and engage in what is right and be good representatives of our faith. “We are to embrace whatever that strengthens the unity of our nation and continuously abhor whatever threatens peace,” he said. Sanwo-Olu, in a statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Mr Gboyega Akosile, urged Muslims to continue to display the virtues inherent in Ramadan, adding that all hands must be on the deck to address insecurity and other burning issues in the nation. “I want to urge my dear Muslim brothers and sisters to continue to emulate the good virtues inherent in Ramadan, such as helping the poor and the vulnerable in the society, offering gratitude to Allah, showing compassion and generosity to one another, among other good deeds that guide your faith,” he said. The Governor of Jigawa State urged Nigerians to imbibe the spirit of brotherhood and peaceful coexistence in their relationship as they celebrate this year’s Sallah. “We should use this post-Ramadan period and the lessons we learnt from the fasting period to steer clear of any action which does not bode well for our country,” he said in a statement by his Senior Special Assistant (Print Media), Ahmad Danyaro. Yobe State governor called on Muslims to inculcate the virtues of patience, devotion, self-control, humility, kindness, forgiveness and other virtues of Islam on display during Ramadan beyond the season. “Ramadan fasting had in the last one month inculcated the virtues of patience, devotion, self-control, humility, kindness, forgiveness, altruism and other virtues of Islam that should be extended  beyond the month of Ramadan for a just and peaceful society,” he said. The Governor of Edo State charged Muslim faithful to sustain the lessons of sacrifice, selflessness, tolerance, discipline and love learnt during the period of Ramadan. While congratulating Muslims in the state as they celebrate Eid-El Fitr after the successful completion of the Ramadan fast, Obaseki noted that the virtues are necessary in achieving peace, unity and sustainable socio-economic development in the country. The Ogun State Governor,  in a statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Kunle Somorin, enjoined Muslims to continue to hold on to the piety and spiritual elevation attained during the fasting. He noted that though the country is passing through some challenges, Muslims deserve to celebrate the end of the month of mercy and forgiveness Cross River State Governor, Prof Ben Ayade, urged Muslims to imbibe the teachings of the Prophet Muhammed on the essence of religious obligation, insisting that “this is the time, more than ever before, to connect to the virtue of love, compassion, unity and generosity which Prophet Muhammed symbolises and which the holy month of Ramadan taught us.” The admonition was contained in an Eid-El-Fitri message signed by the governor’s Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Mr Christian Ita. Meanwhile, Ganduje has placed a ban on the hoisting of banners and posters by politicians during the Eid prayers and other Sallah festivities. In his Sallah message contained in a statement by the Kano State Commissioner for Information, Muhammad Garba, on Sunday, the governor noted that the act is causing distractions during prayers and making other Sallah festivities less attractive. “While the two rakaat Eid Prayer is considered as an important ritual after a month long Ramadan fasting, festive activities that follow are aimed at showcasing our rich cultural heritage where even foreigners witness them. “It is therefore inappropriate or even disrespectful for persons or political parties to reduce such places to grounds for rallies or campaigns,” the statement added. The chairman of the Senate Committee on Finance, Senator Solomon Adeola, in a message by his media adviser, Kayode Odunaro, called on Muslims and other Nigerians to continue to pray against insecurity bedevilling the nation and the wisdom for leaders to find lasting solutions to killings. He urged Muslims to continue in all the pious and righteous ways associated with the Ramadan. The Jack-Rich Patriots, a body canvassing the election of All Progressives Congress presidential aspirant, Mr. Tein Jack-Rich,  asked Muslims to let love lead them in all activities and urged them to emulate the virtues of Prophet Mohammed through sacrifice, sharing and peaceful co-existence. The body, in a statement by its Secretary-General, Dr. Ibrahim Abdullahi,  also called on Nigerians to pray for peace, unity and prosperity of the country through good governance and service to humanity.  All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com