A Chieftain of the All Progressives Congress in Ondo State, Mr. Mathew Oyerinmade has appealed to the state leadership of the party to play the game according to the rule as far as the forthcoming primary of the party is concerned. Oyerinmade,  who is a senatorial aspirant in the Ondo South Senatorial District of the state, said there was a need for the party leadership to allow a  level-playing field for all aspirants of the party at the primary, warning them against any form of imposition. He stated this in a meeting with party delegates in Oke-Igbo in Ile-Oluji/Oke-Igbo Local Government Area of the state. According to him, imposition of candidates on members might spell doom for the party in the 2023 general election. He pleaded with the state governor, Mr Rotimi Akeredolu, and the leadership of the party, to by all means provide a level-playing field for all aspirants in order to avoid unnecessary dispute after the primary. The APC chieftain noted  that Governor Akeredolu had already promised to support only the candidates that emerged democratically through free and fair primary. He said , “Let me clear the rumour about the imposition of candidate by His Excellency, Arakunrin Oluwarotimi  Akeredolu, SAN. I met the Governor few days ago and he told me that I should go and talk to my people that he is not going to impose or favour any aspirant. He maintained that every aspirant will enjoy a level play field at the party’s primaries. “So, rather than accusing our governor, we’re sending our gratitude to him and the APC Chairman in the state, Ade Adetimehin, for their efforts in ensuring the right  and popular candidates emerged through free, fair and credible primaries across the state. “So, let us go into the field and curry the support of our esteemed delegates in the  Senatorial District, our friends, family members and kinsmen in our local government areas to key into our aspiration and secure their votes ahead of the primary later this month. “I have instructed all my followers not to carry propaganda against any aspirant because propaganda is a modern way of telling lies, so, I don’t involve in it. “Moreover, I have instructed my followers not to speak ill of any aspirant when they canvass for vote on my behalf. However, I want to plead with my supporters not to be distracted with propaganda and lies flying about my person and aspiration by the oppositions and unpopular aspirants.” “For me, I am not moved by their propaganda and I want to implore my supporters to always ignore them and pray with “Iyonu Olorun” as God will surely grant us victory” He expressed confidence of beating all other senatorial aspirants of his new party in the forthcoming party primaries if the party provide a level-playing ground for all aspirants contesting for in the election.