Lagos State Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, on Thursday, pledged that his administration would continue to protect the business interests of the Igbo people across the state. The governor also promised to make the state habitable for non-indigenes that abide by the laws of the state. Sanwo-Olu said his administration would continue to seek peaceful co-existence among all ethnic nationalities cohabiting in Lagos, stressing that the ethnic groups must see themselves as different sides of a coin that shouldn’t have anything against one another. Sanwo-Olu made the promise at 2022 All Markets Conference organised by the Ndigboamaka Progressive Markets Association in Amuwo Odofin area of the state. This was contained in a statement by his spokesman, Gboyega Akosile, titled, ‘Igbo traders to Sanwo-Olu: ‘We want you again’. He said: “We have to come to the understanding that we all have different roles to play in keeping Lagos safe for business and living. We are all important stakeholders in Lagos project, whether it is Government, traders or private sector individual. We must continue to foster peace and harmony through an avenue like this conference, using the interaction to make Lagos better for everyone of us.” Furthermore, Sanwo-Olu said Igbo traders remained prominent players in the economic growth of the state, noting that Lagos’ development narrative would not be complete without the mention of the entrepreneurial spirit of the Igbo. He said: “This is another moment for our Government to recognise our Ndigbo brothers and sisters for their commitment to the growth and development of Lagos. Certainly, Ndigbo traders have been part of the good story of Lagos; your entrepreneurial spirit is second to none and the Igbo enterprising spirit has become a case study in Harvard, which is the biggest business school in the world. “Contribution to the livelihood of your host communities has been acknowledged and in Lagos, we have created together an economy that has continued to grow and position our nation as the biggest economy in Africa. Trading is a veritable link between producers and consumers, which is the area the Ndigbo traders have tirelessly worked to define the growth trajectory of our dear State. I’m happy that our modest interventions for more growth in this area are visible and being recognised.” Meanwhile, the association, which is an algamation of Igbo traders across 58 major markets in Lagos, passed a vote of confidence in the leadership of Sanwo-Olu and endorsed the governor’s second term bid. The traders said they unanimously support the governor’s re-election in appreciation of the State Government’s business policies and infrastructure development which support their trades. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com