A 33-year-old man, whose name is yet-to be ascertained as at the time of filling in this report, was on Monday, murdered at a drinking joint along Jemeni Street, Abakaliki, the Ebonyi State capital. A reliable source, who spoke to our Correspondent, on grounds of anonymity, said the incident occured at about 7pm, adding that it has created tension and panic within the area. Confirming the incident, the Ebonyi State Commissioner of Police, Aliyu Garba, said that the two men were drunk and exchanged argument at the joint. Garba said, “The incident happened and victim died. The two of them- both the man that killed the man and the one that died came to the joint together. “But of course, you should know they were already drunk. The two of them just had little argument in that beer parlour, and one of them took bottle and smashed it on the head of the other person. The incident happened between the two of them. “The one, whose head was hit with the bottle was rushed to the hospital and he could not survived it. “By now, I’m sure my men would have arrested the suspect. I’m sure I will be able to give you feedback later.” The source said that trouble stated when the suspect simply identified as Ayoola who is a food seller at Ekeaba Market attempted hitting the deceased with his car which made the deceased to question his action. The source said,”Usually, people do gather at the new joint to eat and drink and that faithful day, the deceased was coming into the joint and the suspect with his car drove so rough that he almost hit the deceased with his car. “The deceased became furious and questioned why he should drive roughly that he almost hit him, the suspect started raising his voice and threatening the deceased. Infact, from all indication, it seems both of them might have had issues before now or were already drunk. “People at the joint were trying to calm the suspect down but he continued threatening the deceased. “To the amazement of many people, the suspect picked up a bottle and smashed it on the deceased forehead and the young man fell down on the ground. “Few minutes later, it was realized that the deceased had become motionless and blood gushing out from his mouth and nose. Many of the people there ran away.” The source stated that shortly after the incident, policemen arrived the scene of the incident and arrested the suspect and took the corpse of the deceased away. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com