Some vendors at the ongoing Guaranty Trust Holding Company Plc annual Food and Drink Festival have lauded the company for increased business visibility of their brands following the return of the fair. The vendors said this in separate interviews with the News Agency of Nigeria on Saturday in Lagos. Founder T-Crown Food and Processing, Temilade Agunbiade, a two-time vendor at the fair, said the platform had created more patronage and visibility for her brand. She also lauded the company for giving back to society by promoting Small and Medium Enterprises through the platform. “This is our second time as vendors at the GTCO Food and Drink festival and we are so excited to be part of the business growth venture. “This is an opportunity to enjoy the ambience provided by the GTCO Food and Drink fair platform alongside our customers. “The fair has also provided an opportunity for us to meet with investors, increase sales and gain better visibility for our business. “We witnessed increased patronage for our business following our participation in the 2019 GTCO fair and this year we hope for more reach and to take our brand global. “Thanks so much, GTCO for this opportunity; it is a great way of giving back to society and we appreciate it,” Agunbiade said. On his part, the founder of Healthy Lifestyle Meals, Edward Ikesa, a first time vendor at the fair, lauded the group as he hoped for more reach for his business. “We make healthy meals; we have different menus to encourage Nigerians to eat healthily. “Our expectations at the 2022 GTCO Food and Drink fair are to reach out to more people and have a wider coverage while introducing people to healthy meals. “We are so glad to be part of this year’s fair, GTCO has been awesome and we hope to see more of this. “The stands are all free of charge, we do not get to pay anything to display our goods and services,” Ikesa said. Another first-time vendor, the Chief Executive Officer, Yange Yoghurt, Efe Inyang, thanked the group for the impartial selection of vendors at the fair. Inyang also expressed her hope for wider visibility for business at this year’s fair. “I am so grateful that GTCO selected our business for this opportunity, it is so huge. We did not do anything but chose to bank with them. “For me and my business, it is a big deal and my expectation for the fair is to sell out the thing we brought to the fair. “I hope to be here also next year if the opportunity is granted to us. We are so grateful to the GTCO. Keep doing what you are doing. “The sale has been good even though we just came in today, this is our first time at the fair and we got a good spot. “Everything has been perfect so far, GTCO is just fantastic at promoting SMEs through this initiative,” Inyang said Also speaking, the Founder of Mmaabacha, a local cuisine shop, Anita Nwoye, thanked the group for the opportunity to get more investors for her business. “We provide meal services for local gatherings by serving local cuisines such as abacha, nkwobi, ugba and palmwine, among others. “It is our first time at the GTCO Food and Drink Festival and we expect wider visibility for our business through this platform. ‘We hope to spread our network and hopefully get investors for our business. ‘GTCO Food and Drink fair has impacted positively on my business and has opened more doors of opportunity for us. “I expect to broaden the scope of my business from this outing based on the contact I have started gathering,” Nwoye added. NAN reports that this year’s edition will run from April 30 and end on May 2, at the GTCentre, Plot 1, Water Corporation Drive, Oniru, Victoria Island. The free to attend three-day festival will feature cooking masterclasses of cuisines chosen from all around the world and over 150 free retail stalls showcasing everything from the best of Nigeria’s street food to bite-sized gourmet treats and fresh farm produce from the farmers’ market. The primary objective of the GTCO Food and Drink Festival is to showcase our diversity and industry as a people whilst delivering a sumptuous culinary experience to food enthusiasts across the continent. The fair returned after a two-year break orchestrated by the COVID-19 pandemic. (NAN)