It is Friday and you just pulled off the biggest deal of your career, so you are in the swankiest lounge in town, you are feeling good with yourself so you order expensive bottles of champagne. When the servers bring  the drinks over with sparklers, the DJ starts to play “dorime” Nektunez and Goya Menor’s Ameno (Amapiano remix). People stare, they wonder who this new kid on the block is. While it would seem you have just made it overnight, you know this success has been from a series of small wins that no one noticed but you. This overnight success story is similar to how the song Ameno became a viral sensation overnight, even though the artist has been working hard at music for almost all his life. Since dropping his debut single, “Free Zone”, three years ago, Ghanaian-born, Atlanta-based producer Nektunez has been racking up serious numbers, consistently notching up five-figure streams with each release. However, not until the release of Ameno was he considered a superstar, with a massive audience on TikTok, the song  kicked off a dance trend that’s had over 10 billion views and 3 million challenge creations. The single also reached #2 on the global Shazam charts, making it one of the most shazamed songs of 2021.  It is friday and you just pulled off the biggest deal of your career, so you are in the swankiest lounge in town, you are feeling good with yourself so you order expensive bottles of champagne. When the servers bring  the drinks over with sparklers, the DJ starts to play “dorime” Nektunez and Goya Menor’s Ameno (Amapiano remix). People stare, they wonder who this new kid on the block is. While it would seem you have just made it overnight, you know this success has been from a series of small wins that no one noticed but you. This overnight success story is similar to how the song Ameno became a viral sensation overnight, even though the artist has been working hard at music for almost all his life. Since dropping his debut single, “Free Zone”, three years ago, Ghanaian-born, Atlanta-based producer Nektunez has been racking up serious numbers, consistently notching up five-figure streams with each release. However, not until the release of Ameno was he considered a superstar, with a massive audience on TikTok, the song  kicked off a dance trend that’s had over 10 billion views and 3 million challenge creations. The single also reached #2 on the global Shazam charts, making it one of the most shazamed songs of 2021.