A group, under the auspices of  Campaign for Democracy, has kicked against the plan by the two major political parties, the All Progressives Congress and the Peoples Democratic Party, to pick their presidential candidates from the North. In a statement by its General Secretary, Mr Ifeanyi Odili, on Saturday, the CD said it would be unfair and unjust for the North to retain power after the years of Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), in power. The group warned that any attempt by the North to retain power might lead to disintegration of the country. “The CD is of the view that if we all come out, make our positions known on who should be the next president, it is possible that we will save Nigeria from the hands of the evil ones that have seized control of power and have negatively used it against the citizens since 1999, when the country returned to democratic rule. “It is evil, undemocratic and unjust if we fold our hands and allow presidency to go back to the North. We should not stand aloof; we need to act to save the nation from disintegration. It is a conspiracy against the South by the North for the two major parties, PDP and APC, to project northern candidates in 2023.” According to the group, jettisoning power shift to the South is a direct invitation to a serious civil strife that may lead to outright balkanisation of the country. It added, “Our politicians should reminisce on the past political events; how political and religious intolerance and impatience have caused premature deaths of our illustrious sons and daughters. It is on record that political, religious and ethnic chauvinism accelerated the death of Chief MKO Abiola, General Sani Abacha, Rear Admiral Elegbede, Alhaja Suliat, Mrs Kudirat Abiola and a host of other prominent Nigerians who were massacred between 1993 and 1999. “Therefore, we draw the line by sounding another warning to the politicians to play the chess game with all sense of maturity and patriotism so that Nigeria will not be returned to another evil days of military rule, because democracy can only be enduring if its managers are fair to one another, to their conscience and to the nation.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com