Ahead of the Osun State governorship election, the state Governor, Gboyega Oyetola, has warned his challengers and opposition political parties in the state to desist from violent campaigns that could disrupt the peace being enjoyed across Osun. He warned members of the opposition parties to be cautious, saying campaign and election are not about violence. The governor sounded the warning while addressing All Progressives Congress loyalists at the St. Thomas, Otan-Ayegbaju, in Boluwaduro Local Government Area of Osun. This was contained in statement issued on Saturday by the Chief Press Secretary the the governor, Ismail Omipidan, titled, ‘You deserve second term, Osun monarchs tell Oyetola’. Oyetola who expressed surprise at the attack on the members of the press and loyalists of the party shortly after his campaign at Gbongan, said it was unfortunate that the opposition had resulted to violence. He appealed to the members of the party not to panic just as he called on the security operatives to go after the perpetrators and bring them to justice. “I am surprised at the attack that occurred shortly after I left the venue of the campaign. I am appealing to the people to remain calm and unperturbed as we are doing everything possible to maintain peace and order. “We have charged the security agencies to go after the perpetrators. Osun is known for peace and we will continue to maintain that status no matter what. “Violence will not help any one or take anyone anywhere. I have been tested and trusted. We are sure of victory, and in a free and fair contest, I will win by the grace of God”, Oyetola added. Meanwhile, the traditional rulers in Boluwaduro LGA have reaffirmed their support for Oyetola, saying they would do all within their powers to get him re-elected. The traditional rulers led by the Owa of Otan-Ayegbaju, Oba Lukman Fadipe and the Oluresi of Iresi, Oba Sikiru Adeseun, said the modest achievements of the governor had earned him second term, insisting that any attempt for the state to decide otherwise would be suicidal to the future of Osun. According to him, the governor maintained that his campaign strategy would continue to be issue based and development driven so as to consolidate on the gains recorded so far and set the State to the path of socioeconomic rejuvenation. Speaking in his palace before other traditional rulers, Oba Fadipe, said the indelible imprints of the governor would speak for his re-election becase, according to him, Oyetola has performed creditably well to transform the State. While describing the administration of Oyetola as unprecedented, the monarch said he has been tested and trusted and is therefore qualified for a second term so that he can take the State to enviable heights. He said, “Please continue with your good works. We are satisfied with what God has made you to do within three and a half years. You have convinced us beyond reasonable doubt and done so much beyond expectations. “Your style of governance is unique. You have been running an all-inclusive and people-oriented governance. “You are a calm, cool, collected and calculative man who has been silently achieving great things and squeezing water out of solid rocks. “We know what is accruable to the state in terms of resources but despite this obvious reality, your government has not disappointed us or left anyone in doubt of your capacity to achieve great with little. “You have proved that it is only an empty barrel that makes noise. Your campaign slogan is speaking for you already. That is why your achievement knows no bounds. “As traditional rulers, we are good assessors. We have assessed your achievements and we are satisfied with all you have done. “We have seen integrity personified in you. We have seen Omoluabi ethos par excellence in you, and your calmness and integrity have endeared you to many. “I am appealing to you all to support him wholeheartedly because he deserves to be re-elected.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com