The Lagos State Domestic and Sexual Violence Agency and the Office of the Education Quality Assurance have told schools in the state to appoint safeguarding officers who will ensure children’s safety and protection. The Executive Secretary of Lagos State Domestic and Sexual Violence Agency, Mrs. Titilola Vivour-Adeniyi, during a sensitisation programme organised for principals, school heads, and focal persons on Lagos State Safeguarding and Child Protection Policy in the Lagos Education District Three said the Lagos State government recently adopted and established a safeguarding and Child Protection Policy, which mandated all agencies, organisations and community members to give priority to the protection of children as a shared responsibility. She said, ‘’School heads and focal persons need to know about the content of the policy, their roles so as to ensure children are safe when in their care. We expect that as they go back they adopt the policy that is nuance to their own environment. They should create or designate a safeguarding officer/worker or school counsellor whose responsibility is to ensure children are safe in the school and engage them regularly on their rights and it must be easy for children to open up to the person. ‘‘Aside from attending this training they need to engage everybody in their institutions by sensitising them about safeguarding and protection.’’ Director-General, Mrs Abiola Seriki-Ayeni, who spoke on ‘Measuring safeguarding and child protection policies in schools, what OEQA expects from schools,’ explained that implementation of the  Safeguarding and Child Protection Policy would curb the rising cases of corporal punishments in schools. ‘‘We have been bringing together nursery, primary, and secondary heads of both public and private schools to sensitise them on all they need to know about what government has put in place on Safeguarding and Child Policy.’’ A facilitator, Mr Taiwo Akinlami, who spoke on the ‘Understanding Childs rights, concepts, societal and cultural perception of children,’ said that while disciplining a children, adults ended up abusing them. ‘‘We need to rethink the way we treat children,’’ he said. Mrs Modupeola Sahid-Adebambo in her presentation on ‘Consideration of the Lagos State executive order on Safeguarding and child protection programme,’ advised that whoever was chosen as safeguarding officer must be trained to understand the procedures and steps to take and what should be done under any circumstance.’’ Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com