The chairman, Christian Association of Nigeria, Bauchi State branch, Rev. Abraham Damina, has lamented that the country is sick and in a dilapidated condition and needing urgent prayers for God’s intervention. Damina, who stated this in a speech at the second prayer rally organised by CAN in the state at its secretariat in Rafin Zurfi, described the theme: “In Times Like These” as very timely because “the present situation calls for fervent prayers for the moral life of our country, which is in a dilapidated condition. We are here to pray unto God to change the narrative.” He called for unity among the body of Christ in Bauchi State in view of the precarious situation they are faced with in the country at the moment. He also called on Christian youths to refuse being used by politicians as political thugs, urging them to be agents of peace and not of crises, especially using the social media. He said: “You will all agree with me that Nigeria is very, very sick at this moment. The challenges are enormous, but with God we shall overcome them all. The challenge of insecurity has given birth to so many other challenges. “Therefore, we should keep praying for peace to reign in our land. “Poverty is a menace; the land is in serious abject poverty. Strikes left right and centre; religious bigotry, kidnapping, banditry, fulani herdsmen. There are so many syndromes that have bedevilled the church and the society at large. The way out is to call on God. “I wish to plead with churches in Bauchi to unite. We are one and we shall continue to be one because there is strength in unity of the church. The unity of the Church at this perilous time should not be underestimated. Those who are not ready to cooperate now will seek the help of others and will not find it; now is the time to be united.” The CAN chairman challenged Christians to ensure that they get their Permanent Voter’s Card because it is their power to decide who governs them even as he called on Christian politicians to play the game of politics with decency, because they are the light of the world. Damina appealed to Christians in the state to be more security conscious and ensure that their churches and houses are secured, stressing that: “While praying for God’s intervention in the affairs of the unfortunate security situation in Nigeria, we hope that one day we shall enjoy absolute peace in our God-given land of Nigeria. “Permit me to use this golden opportunity to call on all Christians in Bauchi State to imbibe the culture of peaceful coexistence. Our Governor is a peacemaker, our emir is a peacemaker, and a host of them. Please, Christians love your neighbours as yourself; do good to those who hate you, for what we desire in this land is peace and nothing else,” he appealed. In his message, the guest speaker, Evangelist Ezekiel Dachumo, the Coordinator of COCIN Prayer and Revival Unit, Jos, called on Christians in the state to deal with fear in their hearts in view of the present situation in the country. He said: “I have come to beg you Christians in Bauchi, please, destroy fear in your hearts because it is a great weapon in the hands of Satan. When Satan succeeds in planting fear in your life, you are finished. When the enemy knows that fear has disappeared from Christians all over the country, they will bow. “The enemy is having a field day in Nigeria because Christians are full of fear but the day we realise that and stop being afraid, I assure you, there will be peace in the country. The enemy has laid a siege on Christians in Nigeria, especially in the north. What are we supposed to do as Christians? We are expected, in a time like this, to be bold and rise up and stand for Christ. “Let us pray for those who killed Deborah (Yakubu in Sokoto). Let’s pray for those who are suppressing the truth. Any Christian that will not defend Jesus Christ is a fake Christian. The God we serve will protect us and he will even protect those who hate us because he is alive and he knows everything. In a time like this, let us forgive, in a time like this, let us stand with one another and speak against the evil in the land of Nigeria.” Speaking on behalf of Bauchi State Governor, Bala Mohammed, his Senior Special Assistant on Christian Matters, Rev. Zakka Magaji, thanked Christians in the state for their continuous prayers for him and his administration, saying that all the successes, achievements, developments and peace recorded are all as a result of their prayers. He said: “Thank God we have great men of God in Bauchi who have been praying for the land, that is why all the evils happening in other states are not being experienced here. It is not as if there have not been attempts, but, the Bible in Isaiah 8:10 says that they will take counsel together but it shall fail, they will speak the words of their wicked plans but they will not stand, because God is with us. “We, in this government, are very much aware that it is prayers that have been sustaining Bauchi State. Because the children of God have been praying, that is why peace has been prevailing in Bauchi. He said I should tell you that you are partners of his government. “We should be mindful of things around us, anything that will cause chaos and disunity among us, please try to avoid them. Keep preaching peace so that people will see the light and be attracted to the God you serve.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com