The Nigerian country has since thought with one mind on the brutal and highly inhumane murder of a 200-level student of a Shehu Shagari College of Education, Sokoto. The gallons of ink, which had been dissipated in the true spirit of solidarity and sanctity of human life, is not unconnected with the vulnerability and the highly despicable, usual descent of Nigeria into the pool of jungle and naked justice. Deborah Samuel, a lady whose controversial and unapologetic disposition against the incessant religious spamming of a WhatsApp group, specifically designed for sharing mostly academic materials and news, showed the way to a hasty death has only addressed a critical issue in our polity. She also fell victim to the age-long politics of vindictiveness and heresies in the entire corpus of our country and different religions. Legally speaking, the only defence that can avail the bloodthirsty and highly obdurate fundamentalist students who were driven to violence in defence of the popular Prophet Mohammed (PBUH), a celebrated Messenger of Allah, dragged (according to them) in the mud by the innocent reaction of the late Deborah, is the defence of provocation. Provocation, according to the decision of the court in R. v. Daffy, and as further cited in Lado V. State “is some act or series of acts done by the deceased to the accused which would cause in any reasonable person, and actually does cause in the accused, a sudden and temporary loss of self-control, rendering the accused so subject to passion as to make him for the moment not master of his mind.” A litmus test is necessary. Not even when it is tremendously mandatory to confirm and further verify if the alleged act of provocation committed by the deceased victim can be said to be enough or even capable of triggering some violent reactions from the aggrieved accused persons. This is according to the decision of the court in Ahmed v. State. The two suspects nabbed so far are liable to being arraigned on three counts of criminal conspiracy, abatement and culpable homicide. This is in the spirit of Islamic legal jurisprudence and the position of the Holy Koran in Koran 6:68, this section of the Holy Koran says, “When you see those who are engaged in blasphemy against our revelations, turn away from them until they begin to talk of other things; and should Satan ever cause you to forget, then do not remain, after recollection, in the company of those wrong-doing people.” Only the section of the Holy Koran earlier cited is enough to dissuade the irrational youth whose violent reaction to the action of late Deborah eventually culminated in her brutal murder. The said reaction of the elements also violates and further desecrates the position of the respected temple of justice in Abubakar Dan Shalla v. State. In this case, the court settled unanimously in support of the fact that only sane and mature Muslims can be punished for committing blasphemy against Prophet Mohammed. It also maintained that a judgement or punishment in respect to he, who has committed blasphemy against the Holy Prophet Mohammed, can only be pronounced by a competent court of reputable jurisdiction. The disgruntled students have emotionally taken laws into their hands by proceeding to giving themselves hasty justice and further venturing into slaying a lady (Christian)  excluded from death by the decision of the court in Abubakar Dan Shalla v. State. This action of theirs is contrary to sections 97, 85 and 221 (a) of the Penal Code. They are likely liable and guilty of the three charges addressed earlier and should be seen as such. Tunde Akingbondere, an intern at the Falana and Falana’s Chambers, writes from Lagos  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com