The leadership of the National Association of Nigerian Students, South-West zone, has lauded students’ protests across its zone, particularly the recent one it led in Akure, Ondo State, on Monday. In a statement signed by the zone’s Coordinator, Deputy Coordinator and Public Relations Officer; Adegboye Olatunji, Alao John, and Awoyinfa Opeoluwa, respectively, the students also noted that the protests by students against the lingering strike action of the Academic Staff Union of Universities had never been connected to the Sokoto religious crises. NANS went further by condemning the poor commitment of the Federal Government to public education while at the same time, bemoaning the negligence of the Nigerian Labour Congress to the plights of students and lecturers. The statement partly read, “Today, as the South-West leadership of Nigerian Students, we are here to once again expose to the world, the barefaced lip service and unconcealed disinterestedness of the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.) Government in rescuing the future of this country from this path of irredeemable destruction. “It’s been over three months of dilemma, confusion, plan disruptions, and disorientation for Nigerian students due to the ongoing ASUU strike which was orchestrated by the systemic failure of the education ministry in Nigeria. “The strike, which has assumed a pandemic status, appears to be the least of worries for President Buhari and his education ministers. “We must also state categorically that the #ENDASUUATRIKE protest was never connected to the Sokoto religious crises. The statement read further, “Just today, the Academic Staff Union of Polytechnics (ASUP) embarked on a nationwide industrial action with similar reasons for the ongoing ASUU strike. “ASUP national strike has completely brought the entire national education sector to a standstill. “Consequently, more helpless children of the poor shall be subjected to further aggravation, deprivation and infringement on their rights to education. “It is popularly believed, and rightly so, that the apparent lack of sympathy, empathy and political will by the ruling class to curtail these issues is because they use public funds to ensure that their children enjoy the best of education across the world. “They forget that if leaders of those countries also neglect their academic sectors, their children will have nowhere to go.” NANS demanded that all the intrinsic issues surrounding the ASUU strike be resolved immediately and the looming ASUP strike be prevented at all costs, noting that “much damage, oppression and injustice have been meted out to Nigerian students and further affliction should not be dispensed on us through the elongation of the ongoing industrial action.” Finally, we are disappointed in the Ayuba Wabba-led Nigeria Labour Congress for showing less concern about ASUU and Nigerian students in this difficult time. The student body said it urged other stakeholders to unite with students as they continued to demand their rights. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com