The Imo State Police Command said it has arrested more suspected members of the Independent People of Biafra/ Eastern Security Network that killed a police officer in Agwa, Oguta Council Area of the state. It also claimed to have discovered a shrine and live python which the suspects used in fortifying themselves before attacks and recovered assorted charms, arms and ammunition in Ubah in Agwa community. According to the Police Public Relations Officer, Michael Abattam, the feat was achieved following the receipt of credible information that the native doctor, who prepared charms for fortifications against bullets and knives for members of the proscribed IPOB and its armed affiliate, ESN which led in the attack and killing of a police officer in Agwa Community, had returned after fleeing the community. According to Abattam, the command’s tactical teams, on Wednesday May 18, 2022 about 06.00 hours hastily mobilised and located the hideout of the criminals in Agwa and immediately cordoned the area. ”The hoodlums on sighting the police operatives, attempted to escape, only to discover that all escape routes had been saturated with police operatives, eventually culminating in their arrest.” He listed the names of the suspects to include: Casmir Mgbugha (male) aged 53 , Hycent Chimezie (male) aged 30,  Hycent Azunna (male) aged 28,  Hycent Ifesinachi (male) aged 26,  Hycent Chimobi (male) aged 23, Chukwuemeka Wisdom (male) aged 22 and Nnadike Clifford (male) aged 72. Abattam listed one Toyota Camry car with registration number AKD 73 BF LAGOS, one live Python, eight locally made pistols,  18 rounds of live cartridges, one Biafra flag, a pair of Police camouflage uniform belonging to late Inspector Felicia Nwagbara (female) who has been declared missing since 2017 by police authorities, as items recovered. ”One of the suspects, Hycent Chimezie, while coming out of the terror camp, attempted to escape for the second time but was maimed on the leg.” Abattam said the suspects confessed to have murdered Inspector Felicia Nwagbara, who was the second wife to one of the suspects, Casmir Mgbugba, in the course of interrogation. He stated that the suspects confessed to have manufactured the locally made guns recovered from them and also sold them to robbers and kidnappers. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com