A group, The Unified Northern Nigerian Youth Forum, on Tuesday, expressed optimism that the Federal High Court, Abuja will rule in favour of the Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria, Dr. Godwin Emefiele, to contest the 2023 presidency. This is just as the group noted that the Court never threw out the suit brought before it by the CBN boss but only adjourned the matter to Thursday, 12th of May 2022. The PUNCH had reported that Emefiele sought an order of a Federal High Court in Abuja restraining the Federal Government from removing him from office over his presidential ambition. Emefiele, through his counsel, Mike Ozekhome, on Monday, also sought an order pending the hearing and determination of the substantive matter. He also prayed Justice Ahmed Mohammed to stop the Independent National Electoral Commission from taking any action against him in the bid to contest the presidential primary by virtue of his office. But Justice Mohammed did not grant the motion. Rather, he adjourned the matter until May 12 for a ruling. According to the group’s Spokesperson, Mohammed Sanni Aliyu, in a statement in Kaduna, the misconception was deliberately conceived by enemies of democracy and those who are actually troubled by Emefiele moves to join the 2023 presidential race. However, they noted that they were optimistic that the honourable court would rule in favour of Emefiele. The statement partly read, “It has come to the notice of the Unified Northern Nigerian Youth Forum that a baseless rumour has been circulated in the media, especially the social media that the Federal High Court (Court 3) has thrown out the case between Dr. Godwin Emefiele and INEC and/or declined the application for the maintenance of status quo ante bellum. “The above information is not true, but a misconception deliberately conceived by enemies of democracy and Nigeria who are actually troubled and terrified to their bones the fact that Dr. Godwin Emefiele is been called upon by Nigerians to serve them.” Consequently, the group called on Nigerians to remain calm and watchful and to disregard any piece of information contrary to the above information. “Certainly, no one can stop an idea whose time has come, now is the time for Emefiele’s Presidency, for Nigeria to flourish, prosper, wax stronger and be evergreen again,” the group said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com