Political blocs of the Ughelli South constituency in the Delta State House of Assembly have kicked against the third term bid of the lawmaker representing the constituency, Hon. Reuben Izeze. The lawmaker is said to be scheming for a third term following clamour by some Ughievwen leaders who had over the years rooted against anyone aspiring for a third team in the constituency. Worried by the political developments in the area, concerned Ughelli South Youths For Equity and Justice, said that the people of the constituency would vehemently resist any attempt to impose Izeze on them. They said Izeze had been a major campaigner against third term ambition and could not turn around to start scheming for a third term to represent them in the State House of Assembly. A statement issued by the group on Saturday and signed jointly by its Chairman John Diakparomre, and Secretary, Emma Ejovwokiniovo, said that “third term is an evil plot” adding that this would not see the light of the day in the constituency. The group insisted that “the people of Ughelli South deserve a resourceful, humble and very accessible representative in the House of Assembly in 2023, but not an Izeze”. “We strongly advise the leaders and people of Ughievwen to desist from the evil plot of sponsoring the incumbent, Hon Reuben Yakubu Izeze for a third term. “Third term is against the noble tradition of Ughelli South. Senator Pius Ewherido of blessed memory did two terms (eight years) and handed over to Olorogun Taleb Tebite who did two terms (eight years). “Tebite wanted a third term to make it 12 years but failed because you never supported it. Now, these same Ughievwen people who refused to support Tebite for a third term are the same people clamouring for Izeze because of greed that he will make their wives Special Assistants and Personal Assistants. They are the ones consulting people for him now,” the statement read in part. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com