The League of Imams and Alfas in Ogun State have urged the Muslim faithful to pray for the nation. The league otherwise known as Rabbitah also preached that Nigerians should return to the God, seeking His blessing and mercy upon Nigeria. The President of the league, Sheikh Sikirullahi Babalola, made the appeal on Sunday, in a statement signed by the General Secretary, Sheikh Tajudeen Mustapha. The league noted that it is important that people sustain the fear of Allah like they did during the fasting period. The statement reads partly, “It is our prayers that Allah will accept all the efforts during the month as acts of worship, reward us abundantly and grant us long lives with good health to witness numerous more of His rahamah. “This year’s Ramadan is a very important one to Nigerians as it precedes the activities toward the 2023 general elections. “All Muslims are therefore enjoined to use the opportunity of this period to pray for peace and stability in our dear country, Nigeria. “In the same vein, we urge all Nigerians to return to Allah in the search for leadership at the various levels as the previous trusts in the ability and promises of humans had not brought the much desired succour.” It also encouraged people to participate in the electoral process in order to select a credible leader, while also urging politicians to be upright. The clerics said, “We urge the politicians and all seekers of positions of authority to fear Allah and remember the day they would return to Allah, the creator of all with nothing but records of their actions and deeds. “They should participate in the processes of electioneering according to the guidelines, avoid every action that could compromise the peace and security of the people during the process while they remain sincere in their dealings when they get to power in order to avoid the wrath of Almighty Allah. “The electorate should actively participate in the process by first getting their Permanent Voters Card ready to freely vote for the candidates of their choice without any compromise or sentiments.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com