Osun State Governor, Adegboyega Oyetola, on Thursday, commenced his re-election campaign with a vow to resist attempts to rig the July 16 governorship poll. Before addressing party loyalists at Enuwa Square, Ile-Ife, Oyetola, while speaking during a courtesy call on Ooni of Ife, Oba Adeyeye Ogunwusi, in his palace, also said if re-elected, he would improve condition of living in the state. He said he used to harbour fear about votes coming from Ife in the past, but expressed confidence that voters in the town would support his re-election with their votes. Speaking in the Yoruba language, Oyetola said, “I can’t joke with any issue regarding Ife. I am rest assured on the votes coming from Ile-Ife. In the past, we used to harbour fear about some places. “But now, we own Ife. There is a town I won’t mention the name, all the votes they want to bring, this Ife we are, we will get the votes they rely on in four folds. “That will neutralise whatever shady thing they intend to do there. There won’t even be opportunity for anyone to rig. The road project we are doing in Ife had been planned to end before I came for campaign. But the contractor didn’t handle it well. We have removed him. “The new contractor will start work by next week. Good road seems to be our major need in the state and we are paying attention to it. Kabiesi himself knows that I have good intention. I may not be able to buy him a jet. But I will do my best to improve quality of living in our state. I can’t also be sharing pounds and dollars and I can’t do fire for fire.” In his remarks, the National Secretary of the All Progressives Congress, Senator Iyiola Omisore, called on the people to support Oyetola in appreciation of his support for the town. Oba Ogunwusi, who prayed for Oyetola, called for a peaceful poll in the state. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com