A governorship aspirant on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party in Ogun state, Segun Sowunmi, has written the National Working Committee of the party, seeking the dissolution of the state’s executives over alleged violation of their oath of office. Sowunmi approached the Court of Appeal sitting in Ibadan, Oyo State, to set aside the judgment of the Ogun State High Court, which had struck out his suit seeking the dissolution of the exco. Sowunmi accused the state exco of being loyal to Ladi Adebutu (also a governorship aspirant). He also accused the chairman of the party in the state, Sikirulahi Ogundele, of being biased and compromising the process of the forthcoming governorship primary election of the party. Sowunmi, in the letter, dated, Friday, May 20, and made available to journalists in Abeokuta, warned that if the exco was allowed to conduct the primary election, it would amount to a ‘nugatory’, and a situation where the party may not have any candidate for the 2023 elections. Sowunmi also stated that he wanted the court to dissolve the state exco on the grounds of violation of their oath of office and bias. He also prayed the court for an interlocutory injunction restraining the exco from conducting the ward and state congresses. Meanwhile, Justice Abiodun  Akinyemi, in his judgment on Thursday, dismissed Sowunmi’s case, citing lack of jurisdiction. Appealing the judgment , Sowunmi claimed that, the judge “was in grave error when he held that only the Federal High Court can exercise jurisdiction in redressing the appellant’s complaint. “That the trial judge erred in law when he held that the proper parties who would be affected by the decision of the court were not before the court, and as such the court was robbed of jurisdiction to entertain and adjudicate upon the same, denying the appellant fair hearing and thereby occasioned a serious miscarriage of justice.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com