To get pregnant involves more than just adding sperm to an egg. It is important to understand the science behind sperm and conception. For instance, it is significant to know how much sperm it takes to get pregnant, and the major characteristics of semen that are important for conceiving a baby. If we look at in vitro fertilisation (IVF), we’ll see that eggs and sperm are combined outside of the female’s body in the laboratory and the fertilised egg is returned to the womb.This can be an option for couples where the male has a slightly lower sperm count or motility and they’ve been trying to get pregnant for at least one year. Let’s take artificial insemination, which is the process of placing sperm inside the uterus to enhance the chances of conception. Artificial insemination requires a minimum of 6.7 million sperms per insemination to be successful. But sperm amount matters less for this method than for natural insemination. Instead, sperm motility and shape play a greater role. Certainly, different factors determine sperm health and the chances of fertilising an egg. Sperm quantity, concentration, motility, and shape are all factors that determine if a male is fertile. Clinically, the amount of sperm and their ability to move are important factors for a male to be able to get a woman pregnant. During ejaculation, an average of around 100 million sperms is released but it only takes one sperm fertilising an egg to conceive. All other sperms die off. If you are fertile, your ejaculate would have at least 15 million to 200 million sperms per milliliter (or two teaspoons) of semen. If you have fewer than 15 million sperms per milliliter or fewer than 39 million total sperms in one ejaculation, you are considered to have a low sperm count. This condition is known as oligospermia. With fewer sperms in the ejaculate, the probability that you will impregnate your wife is reduced because there are fewer sperms available to reach and fertilise the egg. A low sperm count makes it more difficult to conceive, but it’s not impossible. Sperm motility is its ability to swim. In order to reach and fertilise an egg, sperm needs to move first through the cervix, then the uterus, and finally the uterine tubes. If at least 40 per cent of sperms are moving, then you are most likely fertile. The shape, structure, or morphology, of sperm, is another factor for conception. Normal sperm is shaped with an oval head and a long tail. These elements work together to propel the sperm forward to swim and find the egg located in the uterine tubes. Having more sperms with this shape increases the chances of fertility. Sperm is constantly produced in the testicles and takes between 42 and 76 days to reach maturity. After sperm is ejaculated in the female reproductive tract, it is alive for up to five days. Within this time, it can fertilise an egg. Having a healthy sperm count is important for conception. To produce healthy sperm and boost sperm count, try to maintain a good weight and eat a healthy diet, practice safe sex to prevent STIs, keep stress levels low, and exercise regularly. Avoid alcohol, smoking, toxins (pesticides, lead, etc.), and certain medications (steroids, tricyclic antidepressants, calcium channel blockers, and anti-androgens), among others. There are several factors that signal if sperm is healthy and likely to fertilise an egg, including the amount and concentration per ejaculation of semen, as well as motility and structure. Even if you have a low sperm count, there are some things that you can do to take care of your health, and improve the chances of attaining conception. There are instances in which it is necessary to engage a sperm donor, who donates semen, which contains sperm, to a woman or a couple who is trying to get pregnant. The decision to use donor sperm is not usually an easy one but in the event that you would require a sperm donor as part of your fertility treatment plan, it makes sense to find a suitable one.You can choose to use an anonymous donor, a friend or relative, who can donate their sperm directly. Using a sperm donor means that you’ll be choosing half of your child’s DNA so you’ll need to be selective even as you take care of the legal and emotional considerations. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com