The Federal Government is targeting a stronger and bigger economic integration through gas exploration, the Federal Government has said. The Minister of State for Petroleum Resources, Timipre Sylva, said this at the meeting of the Committee of Ministers of the West African Gas Pipeline Project in Abuja on Tuesday. He said the meeting was important as West Africa geared up to become a critical player on gas at a point when the world was scrambling for the product due to Russia’s invasion of Ukraine. He noted that the West African Gas Project was true proof of economic integration and cooperation in our sub-region. The minister pointed out that the gas project was aimed at fostering economic development and promotion of integration among ECOWAS states through cross-border natural gas transportation. He further said that since the pipeline project’s completion in 2011, there had been several successes, including improved gas availability and Takoradi-Tema Interconnection Project, which had significantly increased gas flow through the WAGP. The minister noted that there had also been a lifting of Force Majeure that was in place by Nigeria Gas Company between June 2013 and October 2020, as well as the reforms of the Access Code to the WAGP Network Code. He noted that the ongoing amendment to the WAGP Act and the WAGP Regulations would give a licensing power to WAGP Authority to oversee the activities of the shippers as it related to the WAGP, saying that this was an important achievement. He said more achievements would be recorded with collaborations by all parties. The Director-General of the West African Gas Pipeline Authority, Chafari Kanya, said the resolve of the organisation was to work together with all stakeholders to accelerate growth and foster greater partnership. She said that over-regulation could hamper the growth of organisations, but added that it could also be necessary at times. Kanya assured stakeholders that she would support the amendment of any regulation that was limiting the growth of the organisation through a proper audit. West African Gas Pipeline Company is owned by companies in Nigeria, Ghana, Togo and the Benin Republic, including the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation Limited, which has  24.9 per cent stake in it. The Managing Director of WAPCo, Gregory Germani, on his part, said the company had evolved and worked hard to overcome previous vulnerabilities.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com