Troops of the 2 Brigade Nigerian Army in a combined operation with operatives of the Nigerian Police and the Nigerian Security and Civil Defence Corps on Wednesday raided a kidnappers’ hideout in Akwa Ibom and killed a notorious kingpin and gang leader, Otobong Moses, popularly called Otoabasi. The Assistant Director, Army Public Relations, 2 Brigade, Nigerian Army, Capt. Samuel Akari, who stated this while briefing newsmen after the raid at Obon Ebot in Etim Ekpo Local Government Area, said two kidnap victims were rescued while two members of the deadly gang were arrested. Akari, who said dangerous weapons were recovered during the raid, listed the items recovered to include; one Sub Machine Gun and magazine, 67 rounds of 9mm ammunition, two motorcycles, 16 mobile phones, one AK 47 rifle magazine with 30 rounds of 7.62mm Special ammunition and nine machetes. Two military monkey jackets, one helmet strapped with military camouflage uniform, 2 pairs of military camouflage uniform, one military police beret, one police camouflage face cap, one military pullover, ATM card, two TV sets, a standing fan, decoder and four generator sets were also recovered. “In line with operational directives of the Chief of Army Staff and the Akwa Ibom State Government, troops of 2 Brigade, Nigerian Army in conjunction with the Nigerian Police, Nigerian Security and Civil Defence Corps as well as other security agencies raided a well-known kidnappers hideout. “The raid operation was a result of sustained surveillance on the activities of the notorious kingpin and his syndicate. “The first phase of the operations was conducted on May 12, during the operations, troops raided the criminals’ hideout, but on sighting the troops the criminals abandoned their hideout and fled. “The gallant troops rescued the kidnapped victims and arrested two collaborators of the criminal kingpin while the shrine, hideout and assorted charms were set ablaze by the troops. “Further investigation revealed that the criminal gang is known for terrorising the locals, kidnapping, killing and burying their victims, who do not do their biddings in shallow graves in the general area,” Akari said. He appealed to residents of the community to return to their homes and continue their businesses as the security agencies would be on surveillance to ensure peace in the community. “The good people of Etim Ekpo, Ukanafun LGAs and indeed the entire Akwa Ibom State are enjoined to go about their lawful businesses. “However, those who are bent on disturbing the peace enjoyed in the state are advised to desist or prepare to face the wrath of the law,” he said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com