The Lagos State Government has urged residents to embrace the present administration’s integrated strategy of the voluntary blood donation drive. This was as the state pointed out that the act of voluntary blood donation for clinical uses is a trait of responsible citizens. The Permanent Secretary, Lands Bureau, Mr. Olabode Agoro, made this known while receiving representatives of the Lagos State Blood Transfusion Committee at a voluntary blood donor campaign held recently within the premises of the Bureau. This was contained in a statement titled, ‘Voluntary blood donation is a trait of responsible citizens – LASG,’ made available to newsmen on Wednesday by the Ministry of Information and Strategy. The statement said Agoro affirmed that the provision of safe and adequate blood was an integral part of every country’s national health care policy and infrastructure. He added that the establishment of the blood transfusion committee to coordinate all activities related to blood collection, testing, processing, storage, and distribution, through effective organisation and an integrated blood supply network, was impressive. Agoro, represented by the Director, Administration, and Human Resources, Mr. Murphy Owodeyi, explained that the strengthening of the donor system and effective management, including care and counselling, had made the practice seamless across the metropolis. “Without concrete recognition of blood transfusion as an integral part of the health care system in Lagos State, the infrastructure, the human and financial resources will not perform optimally,” he opined. He encouraged civil servants to subscribe to the ideals of blood donation, adding that blood supplies needed to be constantly replenished since whole blood and blood components have a limited shelf-life. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com