The Igbo Youths for Positive Change has hailed the Anambra State Governor, Prof. Chukwuma Soludo visit to the detained leader of the Indigenous People of Biafra, Nnamdi Kanu. The group described it as a great move aimed at entrenching peace and bringing back the desired security in Anambra and the entire South-East region. The National President of the group, Chinedu Obigwe, in a statement on Sunday, said Soludo truly has a burning desire to bring peace and security back to the South-East. Obigwe said the governor’s visit will ensure two things: the release of Kanu from detention and putting an end to the insecurity in Anambra and South-East at large. Soludo had visited Kanu at the DSS custody on Friday, saying that it was part of his wider consultations with critical stakeholders in search of lasting peace and security in the South-East. Writing on his Facebook wall, the governor said, “He was in very high spirits and we had quality and frank discussion in a very convivial atmosphere. He expressed sadness over what he described as ‘sacrilegious killings’ of innocent persons, kidnappings and all forms of criminalities, including the brutal enforcement of the senseless ‘sit at home’ perpetuated by sundry groups, claiming to be acting for or on behalf of IPOB. “He assured that if the opportunity arises, he will be glad to personally broadcast to his followers to maintain the peace. “Together, we shall restore peace, security and prosperity in Anambra and the South-East.” Obigwe said the governor deserves to be appreciated and commended for his bold steps at ensuring that peace returns to the region. He said, “We are proud of our support for Soludo and we know that other of his supporters are proud of him. If you see someone that has a burning desire to entrench peace and security in his state you will know. He truly has a burning desire to bring peace and security in his state and the South-East. “His visit to Kanu at the DSS custody is not something that can be taken for granted. It’s something that must be appreciated by ndi Anambra and igbo at large. Soludo is a character that means business. “If he wants to achieve a goal, he will ensure that no stone will be left unturned to achieve that goal. It shows that he feels Kanu’s pain and that he is deeply touched with the insecurity in Anambra and South-East at large. “Let us not forget in a hurry that no other South-East governor was bold enough to identify with Kanu in this period of his incarceration at DSS custody but Soludo has done that. He is the only presidential material the igbo can boast of having but let the will of God be done.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com