Africa Day is observed on May 25 every year in commemoration of the day the Organisation of African Unity, now African Union, was founded in 1963. The day, according to documentation is for “celebrating Africa’s heritage and cultural impact on the world while highlighting our uniqueness and diversity,” which are normally expressed through music, art, craft, advocacy and fashion. As part of the celebration for this year, the African Union held a three-day summit between May 26 and May 28 with a focus on migration, refugees, returnees and internally displaced people. By extension, the African leaders considered issues on terrorism and unconstitutional change of government. Africa Day needs to have a theme for discussion within the context of economic development. Such themes can be woven around various sectoral issues like education, industrialisation, agriculture or even generic concerns such as development planning, unemployment, life expectancy, security or insecurity and governance. There are lots of issues on the table for discussion when it comes to Africa. Albeit, there are lots of works done by scholars and institutions on Africa that remain on the shelf and which organised symposium on Africa Day can espouse. Categorisation of countries into least developed countries was introduced by the World Bank in 1971 and sub-Saharan African countries have dominated the list. Presently, there are 46 countries in this category in the world and African countries in the group are 33, more than any other continent. According to the United Nations, the LDCs are low-income countries facing serious challenges to develop sustainable and self-supporting economies. Among the first 10 least developed countries in the world are Benin, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Central African Republic, Chad, Guinea, Malawi, Mali and Niger. Afghanistan leads the group. Human Development Index developed by the United Nations is used as measurement of development globally. The index tracks over 100 global indicators including those of education, life expectancy, per capita income, health accessibility, et cetera and combines them to form a single HDI, placing each country on a scale of 0-1. The closer a country is to one, the more advanced it is in human development. Actually, 0 to 0.55 represents low human development while 0.55 to 0.70 is ranked medium human development and high human development is 0.70 to 0.80. The highest human development ranking is 0.80 to 1.00. All the first ten least developed countries in the world, except one, are in sub-Saharan Africa. What are the factors that create this sorry state? Sometimes we are quick to point at colonialism but we have over time found that many African leaders have been quite irresponsible with power. Many of the leaders that fought and won independence lost the vision to develop their countries after staying too long and converting the country into their conquered territory. That led to many coups and countercoups with consequent loss of focus on developing their respective countries. Let us look at some other statistics. Looking at the illiteracy rates of adults in developing countries in 2019, sub-Saharan Africa has the highest with 34.7 per cent. Adult illiteracy level in South Asia was 27.1 per cent; in Arab States, it was 20.6 per cent and 6.3 per cent in Latin America and the Caribbean. A major source of production and productivity for sustainable economic growth is education but most African governments are less concerned about education or quality education. This is particularly true of many countries that are in the LDCs. For instance, as of 2022, Niger is the least literate country in Africa with 19.1 per cent adult literacy level. Others are South Sudan – 26.8 per cent literacy level, Guinea – 30.4 per cent, Mali – 33 per cent, Burkina Faso – 36 per cent, Central African Republic – 36.8 per cent, Benin – 38 per cent, Chad – 40 per cent, Cote d’Ivoire – 43 per cent and Liberia – 48 per cent. Many of these countries are also reputed to have the worst education system in terms of ranking in the HDI. The countries with the world’s lowest life expectancy worldwide by 2018 data are again is in Africa namely Central African Republic (53 years), Chad (50.6 years), Gabon (52.1), Guinea Bissau (51 years) and Swaziland (52.1 years). The issue of life expectancy is strongly tied to affordable and accessible health care and education. According to daytranslation.com the countries that lack healthcare most in the world as of 2019 are Liberia, Malawi, Niger, Ethiopia, Sierra Leone, Tanzania, Somalia, Gambia, Mozambique, Guinea Bissau, etc. It was reported that Liberia, for example, has 10 medical doctors serving one million people! In the area of status of financial system, particularly with the banking sub-sector which dominates the sector, most African countries have an underdeveloped banking sector with a high ratio of a bank servicing millions of population. There are 763 commercial banks in 54 African countries. According to Business Insider Africa, South Africa and Tanzania have the highest concentration of commercial banks with 51 and 50 respectively. Kenya has 42 while Egypt has 40 and Ghana, Uganda and Nigeria have 34, 24 and 22 respectively. The same source reported that Asia has at least 1,900 commercial banks, European Union has about 6000 and the United States alone has over 4000 commercial banks. In terms of valuation or capital size, only a few banks can compete with those on other continents. South Africa has the leading banking industry on the continent of Africa and Standard Bank Group’s capitalisation is $172.9 billion and followed by National Bank of Egypt with an assets size of $124.9 billion and no Nigerian bank can boast of capitalisation worth $30 billion. The implication is that saving mobilisation in Africa is very low with negative consequences on investible funds. Thus, the need to improve domestic saving mobilisation is imperative. However, saving is a derivative of income just like taxes. There have been arguments that saving and taxes are very low in Africa. The latter has made many African governments impose heavy taxes on their citizens in order to satisfy the complainants. Available data has shown that African countries’ taxes are some of the highest in the world. African government must realise that taxes are withdrawals from the economy and must be spent judiciously in terms of investment to grow the economy. So, it is improper to collect taxes and embezzle the fund, part of which is transferred abroad as illicit fund transfer. To improve savings and taxes, the African government must concentrate on improving national income or revenue. Therefore, policies to generate income and sustainable revenue must be implemented so that more taxes can be collected from the increased income, just as improvement in savings will be achieved. A recent debt sustainability analysis reported in The PUNCH of May 11, 2022 explained that some 11 ECOWAS countries are in debt distress. The countries are Benin, Burkina Faso, Cabo Verde, the Gambia, Ghana, Guinea Bissau, Liberia, Niger, Nigeria, Senegal and Togo. It is clear and not surprising that most of these countries are the reported poor countries in the world. If the report is extended to the rest of Africa, it would be clear that most African countries are debt distressed. The notion—or mentality—that a country must borrow to grow is a fallacy, particularly in the case of Africa. Large proportion of the borrowed funds never reaches Africa. Rather, it is used to create jobs in other countries. Part of the borrowed funds is used to buy equipment for development. The equipment is not produced in Africa but made and paid for elsewhere. The purchased materials are transported by foreign vessels and paid for in foreign currencies while other services, including technical support, rendered by the producers are also paid for and the rest is legitimately paid into foreign accounts of those who facilitated the approval of the loan such as the home government officials as it is part of the banking business processes to appreciate facilitators. So, where is the benefit, particularly if the equipment is not new due to official corruption? There is the need to ask ourselves: why should Africa be the major borrower and not lender in the debt market? What can we do to change the trend? Africa Day should be used for public discussion on a theme relating to Africa’s socio-economic development. The issues on insecurity and unconstitutional change in government have to do with bad governance. It has to do with corruption, lack of transparency and accountability in governance. How many African leaders can take a walk on a popular road or street in their domain and shake hands with the citizens?  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com