Governor Yahaya Bello of Kogi State, on Thursday, submitted his completed nomination and expression of interest forms at the International Conference Centre, Abuja as part of activities to realise his ambition for the 2023 Presidency under the platform of the All Progressives Congress. A statement issued by the spokesperson of Yahaya Bello Presidential Campaign Organisation, Yemi Kolapo, said the form was submitted on his behalf by the Director-General of the organisation, Hafsat Abiola-Costello. Bello expressed confidence that he would pick the APC presidential ticket in the next few weeks. The DG urged Nigerians to keep a date with destiny on May 29 2022, stressing that Governor Bello would be the next President of Nigeria. According to her, Bello started his campaign early and had covered the 36 states of the federation, including the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja, adding that the support from Nigerians, across party lines, was overwhelming. “I have come on behalf of our candidate to submit the expression of interest form and I want to express my congratulations to all Nigerians. Today, we have taken another step in the journey to restore hope to Nigerians by submitting the Presidential application of Governor Yahaya Bello. “With this form, we express our sincere assurance that with Yahaya Bello’s candidacy, we have the opportunity to restore to the Nigerian people security, we have the opportunity to restore to the Nigerian people, unity and progress towards prosperity. “On several candidates, we welcome every candidate to the race and we want to encourage all Nigerians to keep the faith. Governor Yahaya Bello did not start this effort this month, he did not start it this year, he started it many years ago. He has canvassed the whole country and he has signalled to the Nigerian people his capacity of competence. “He has built his credibility within the party, and he has built allies along religion, across every divide, so we have nothing to fear from other candidates, especially those who are just applying now. We see that some candidates are going around meeting people. We have been doing that for years. We are fully confident in the movement that he represents. “As you see, I am not here by myself, I am with many members of our team as well as supporters, and we are so proud to give Nigerians something great. We have no reservations about his competence. “From his first day in office, he started working to unify, to bring security to the state and to restore sanity to the civil service system. This is what he will do as President and we look forward to the Nigerian people welcoming him as a candidate come June 1, 2022,” Abiola-Costello said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com