A chieftain of the All Progressives Congress in Ondo State, Chief Alex Ajipe, has called on the electorate to be ready to make sacrifices in their decisions to elect their representatives at the forthcoming National Assembly elections. Ajipe, who is a senatorial aspirant of the party in the Ondo-North Senatorial District, said there must be change of attitude of the people towards election as it concerned their representative at the legislature. He stated this while speaking with the delegates and party members in the Akoko North-West and Akoko North-East Local Government Areas of the state on Tuesday. According to him, the next election would determine whether the people were willing to free themselves or continue in the “business as usual” system. Ajipe said, “I am pained anytime I see little children drop out of school because their parents cannot pay their school fees. But unfortunately that is what is happening because of the lackadaisical attitude of the representative that we have elected in the last 12 years. I believe that things can be better than what we have gotten in the last 12 years. “I am spurred to enter the race because of the need to put in place sustainable basic amenities, such as good road networks, potable water, basic health care services, affordable primary and secondary education and grants to alleviate the suffering of the people. All these can be possible with good representation at the National Assembly.” In his remarks, the APC chairman in the Akoko North-East Local Government, Alhaji Saliu Mumini, said the time for true change had come in Ondo North and all concerned indigenes must be ready to enthrone a senator with a true quest for the development of the district. Mumini, who said the Ondo North Senatorial District was lagging behind in all ramifications, wanted a quick response to the agitation of the people which included quality representation, lobbying for establishment of infrastructural and human development. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com