A Federal High Court in Sokoto presided over by Justice James Kolawole Omotosho, on Thursday, affirmed the candidature of Isa Acida as the authentic chairman of the All Progressives Congress in the state. Omotosho dismissed the case filed by the Mainasara Sani-led faction of the APC which had claimed that Mainasara was the state chairman of the party. The judge dismissed the case on grounds of filing out of time. While explaining that the case should have been filed within 14 days after the appellant court judgement that set aside the Abuja High Court judgement on the matter, Omotosho insisted that political parties had acceptable guidelines. Amongst these guidelines, according to Omotosho, included conducting party congresses at party secretariat which was not so in the case that produced the Mainasara-led executive committee. This therefore, negates the guidelines set up by the APC for the conduct of states’ congresses. Bringing this into consideration, Justice Omotosho stressed that the report of the Independent National Electoral Commission, therefore, stood, hence reaffirming the Isa Achida led-executives as the duly recognised leadership of the party. He however dismissed the preliminary objection filed by the counsel to Achida that the court lacked jurisdiction to entertain the matter since it was an internal affairs of the political party. The APC in Sokoto had been engulfed in leadership crisis after the state congress of last year, following emergence of leadership from three factions in the same party. The Hon. Abdullahi Salame faction produced Surajo Abubakar Daji as it’s chairman, the Senator Wamakko led faction produced Isa Achida and that of Senator Gada led faction produced Mainasara Abubakar Sani. Uncomfortable with the High Court decision, one of the factions approached an Appeal Court in same Abuja which set aside the judgement on grounds that the lower court lacked jurisdiction to hear the matter that occurred in Sokoto state. Following that legal trend, the Mainasara-led executive filed a case in the Federal High Court of Sokoto which judgment was delivered today. At of the time filing this report, Mainasara was unable to respond to calls put across to him to know their next line of action, however, counsel to Achida led by Jacob Ochidi, SAN, said he was comfortable with the ruling. Meanwhile, one of the interested party members in the case, Hon. Salame, when contacted on his reaction to the judgement, said his faction had not seen a copy of the judgement delivered. He, however, said he had no problem whatsoever with the judgement delivered, saying his only problem was to have a level-playing field with all members of the party and not really on who was the chairman of the party. He said as a Muslim who believed in God, “if God is going to make me the State Governor, nobody can stop that and if I am not destined to be, I won’t. “All I clamour for is to have a level-playing field for all the aspirants and not just about Salame.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com