Ahead of the forthcoming presidential primaries of the All Progressives Congress, Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, on Saturday, urged party delegates to vote in the interest of the future generations. Speaking in Dutse, the Jigawa State capital, Osinbajo said, “All I ask you to do is what is in the best interest of Nigeria; vote in the interest of our children.” This is according to a statement on Sunday by his Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity, Laolu Akande, titled, ‘Osinbajo engages APC delegates in Jigawa, says Nigeria deserves the best.’ Osinbajo’s Saturday visit to Jigawa was in continuation of his nationwide consultations with APC stakeholders and delegates. At the town hall-style interaction with the delegates, the vice president restated his view that decisions about the 2023 elections be based on what is best for the country, its destiny, and its future as a nation. According to him, “We should decide based on the future of our children. We can make progress. We can move on. All I ask you to do is what is in the best interest of Nigeria; vote in the interest of our children.” He also restated how his training and experience in governance serving as vice president under the president, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), would help him lead the country effectively as president in 2023 if given the ticket elected under the APC platform. “As vice president, the president has given me an opportunity that I do not think any other vice president has been given.” Later while speaking during a brief chat with the media after the meeting, Prof. Osinbajo described the engagement as fruitful. “Obviously, all the issues that we discussed are issues that concern the country very significantly. We talked about agriculture, we talked about youth empowerment, education, technology, and a wide variety of issues. “I think it was extremely fruitful, and at least we all understand where we are coming from and where we ought to be in the few years ahead. All of us are very happy that we were able to have this engagement,” he said. Delegates who spoke during the interactive session included members of the State House of Assembly, local government officials, grassroots leaders, and women leaders. According to the statement, their discussions revolved around the successes of the Social Investment Programmes, especially the National Homegrown School Feeding programme, which the delegates recalled offered first-time jobs for several women. They also commended the contributions of the VP in that respect while praising other achievements of the Buhari administration, including the efforts to make fertilizer available and affordable, a benefit much enjoyed in Jigawa State.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com