The Anambra State Governor, Prof. Chukwuma Soludo, on Wednesday, declared a state of emergency on insecurity and infrastructure in the state. Soludo assured the people that he would make the state an industrialisation hub. The governor stated this in Awka, on Wednesday, during a town hall meeting of traditional rulers, youth leaders and other stakeholders in the state. He said the event was put together to enable the state government interact and interface with the various stakeholders with a view to fronting a common good of the state. He frowned on the increasing rate of insecurity in the state and admonished the people to report anyone with questionable character living among them, adding that the people causing pain live within the communities. He also assured of continued consolidation of projects of his predecessor despite paucity of funds. He said, “Today marks 49days we assumed office. This is the second time we are calling this meeting to keep you abreast on our commitment in transforming the state. We will call you again in 100days. “Our first duty is to resurrect Onitsha. Onitsha must rise. Onitsha, being the Obi of Ndigbo. Almost all gutters in the city are all filled up. Distilling of Sakamori has commenced. All houses blocking the river must come down. “The presence of touts has pursued many businessmen away from the town. It is difficult to find where to park to do shopping. But we assure you that shopping in Onitsha will become a pleasurable experience soon.” While announcing the recruitment of teachers and health workers to make up for manpower deficit in the public schools and hospitals, Soludo also promised to increase the “N20m community choose your project initiative” of the immediate past administration to N25m. “We will partner with those with private farms to assist us in producing enough palm oil and coconuts we can consume and export,” he added. On Security, Soludo called for assistance from youths of various communities on intelligence gathering, assuring them that their identity would be treated with utmost confidentiality. “Traditional rulers and president generals must take charge of their communities. You must re-examine and revamp your local vigilante to forestall further breakdown of low and order. “Culture of silence must stop. I’m sure you know the hoodlums and you must expose them on time before they strike. We must resurrect community participation and mobilize youths to take back our societies,” he said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com